SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
911
AND 233A
Moseley writes: “In dredging at Kobé a fish (Amblyopus) was obtained, which is Stations 233
almost devoid of eyes, has the skin naked, except towards the tail, where there are
rudimentary scales. An elevated crest or ridge-like organ runs along the middle of the
top of the snout, and is continued on the chin ; this on examination proved to be a
sense-organ. It was richly provided with nerves, which go to the bottoms of long
pits opening externally, and traversing them are connected all round with a system
of elongate radially-disposed cells within these pits. The ridge itself is made up of
a great thickening of the epithelial layer of the skin, the epithelial cells being elongated.
The fish is of a bright red colour when fresh, from the blood showing through the
transparent skin."
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ Moseley found a remarkable fish, living in the mud at
8 fathoms, of a pale reddish colour and with a peculiar organ on its nose. In shape it
was like an Ophidium, and must have been plentiful in the bay, as nearly every haul
brought up a specimen. Moseley also got many tubes and animals of Chætopterus, a
genus I have not seen since leaving Europe.”
DIATOMACEÆ.—The following species of Diatoms were observed by Mr. Rattray in ORGANISMS FROM
the deposit from Station 233 :
THE DEPOSIT.
Campyloliscus unlulatus, Greville.
kittonianus, Greville.
dæmelianus, Grunow.
latus, Shadbolt, var.
bicostatus, W. Smith, var.
samoensis, Grunow.
Campylodiscus echineis, Ehrenberg.
Surirella fastuosa, Ehrenberg.
fluminensis, Grunow, var.
sp. (?).
Coscinodiscus oculus-iridis, Ehrenberg.
var. loculifera, Rattray.
concinnus, W. Smith, var. jonesiana,
Rattray.
radiatus, Ehrenberg.
nobilis, Grunow.
normanii, Gregory.
rex, Wallich,
decussatus, Grove and Sturt.
gigas, Ehrenberg, var. diorama,
Grunow.
perforatus, Ehrenberg.
apiculatus, Ehrenberg, var, ambigua,
Grunow.
marginatus, Ehrenberg.
Hyalodiscus stelliger, Bailey ( = Podosira maculata,
W. Smith, Craspedodiscus stella,
Ehrenberg).
subtilis, Bailey.
Actinocyclus ehrenbergii, Ralfs.
Arachnoidiscus ornatus, Ehrenberg, var.
Actinoptychus undulatus, Ehrenberg.
Melosira sulcata, Kutzing, var. biseriata, Grunow.
sp. (0)
Hemidiscus cuneiformis, Wallich.
var.
Triceratium favus, Ehrenberg.
Alloroneis antillarum, Cleve.
Navicula spectabilis, Gregory.
lyra, Ehrenberg, elliptica, A.
Schmidt.
crabro, Kutzing.
major, Kutzing (fresh water).
Nitzschia plana, W. Smith.
(Tryblimella) salinarum, Grunow.
punctata, Grunow, var. coarctata, Grunow.
Pleurosigma æstuarii, W. Smith.
strigosum, W. Smith.
balticum, W. Smith.
Biddulphia pulchella, Gray.
Thalassiothrix frauenfeldii, Grunow.
99
