SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1225
STATION 335.
ANOMURA (Henderson, Zool. pt. 69).
Parapagurus abyssorum, M.-Edwards, MS.
Station 56.
One specimen ; for distribution see
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Clathurella cala, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Chlorophthalmus gracilis, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Stations 168 and 300.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Two
specimens of Epizoanthus (?) on shells containing Pagurus, two Tubularians attached to
pumice-stones, dead shells of Dentalium, Corbula, and Cerithium on Annelid-tubes, and
two specimens of Rostellaria with Pagurus and Epizoanthus.
Excluding Protozoa, over 70 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this Station, belonging to about 27 species, of which 17 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera ; 6 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
The following species of Pteropoda, Foraminifera, and Radiolaria were observed in ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits
Chall. Exp.) :
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Limacina inflatu (d'Orbigny).
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Clio (Styliola) sulla (Quoy and Gaimard).
Cavolinia trispinosa (Lesueur).
Pyrumilata, Linné.
inflexca (Lesueur).
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up
about
80 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x.
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
ringens (Lamarck).
var, chilostoma, Reuss.
Spiroloculina acutimargo, Brady.
Bulimina elongata, d’Orbigny.
tenuis (Czjzek).
rostrata, Brady.
Miliolina seminulum (Linné).
Virgulina schreibersiana, Czjzek.
tricarinata (d'Orbigny).
Bolivina limbata, Brady.
venusta (Karrer).
punctata, d'Orbigny.
Reophax difflugiformis, Brady.
reticulata, Hantken.
Haplophragmium canariense (d'Orbigny).
Lagena acuta (Reuss).
globigeriniforme (Parker and
exsculpta, Brady.
Jones).
formosa, Schwager.
Textularia aspera, Brady.
lærigata (Reuss).
sa pittula, Defrance.
lævis (Montagu).
