1036
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 271.
NUDIBRANCAIATA (Bergh, Zool. pt. 26).
Bathydoris abyssorum, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus. The body of this specimen was
gelatinous and transparent, the tentacles brown, the gills
and protruding external generative organs orange, the foot
dark purple.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Enoploteuthis margaritifera, Rüppell. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 195.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Discina atlantica, King. One specimen ; for distribution see Station 106.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 17).
Culeolus moseleyi, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pts. 57 and 78).
Malacosarcus macrostoma, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 276,
2350 fathoms. Only species of the genus.
Macrurus armatus, Hector. One specimen; for distribution see Station 146.
Lepidopus tenuis, n.sp. One specimen (probably from near the surface); obtained
also at Station 232.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Fragment of Euplectella, three specimens of Stephanoscyphus and Polyzoon.
Excluding Protozoa, about 140 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 29 species, of which 22 are new to science, including
representatives of 10 new genera; 15 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
The large number of specimens noted at this Station is due to the fact that more
than a hundred examples of Deep-Sea Keratosa are included.
The following species of Foraminifera, Radiolaria, and Diatoms were observed in the
deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall
. Exp.):-
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up
about
86 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus X.
Biloculina depressa, d’Orbigny.
Storthosphæra () sp.
var. murrhyna, Schwager. Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Miliolina oblonga (Montagu).
Hyperammina elongata, Brady.
venusta (Karrer).
vagans, Brady.
Pelosina cylindrica, Brady.
Rhizammina algaformis, Brady.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT,
6
