SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
857
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Caudina Station 218.
(Holpadia), two specimens of Holothuria, Onuphis, blind Zoëa, two Polyzoa, five different
fishes (four only noted above).
Excluding Protozoa, over 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 50 species, of which 36 are new to science, including
representatives of 11 new genera; 17 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
The following species of Heteropoda and Foraminifera were observed in the deposit ORGANISMS FROM
from this Station, in which were many oval arenaceous bodies, supposed to be the dung
THE DEPOSIT.
of Holothurians, like those common in the deposits in the Sulu and other enclosed seas
(see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
HETEROPODA (Smith, Zool. pt. 72).
Carinaria cristata (Linné).
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up about
58 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x.
93
Biloculina comata, Brady.
depressa, d'Orbigny.
var. serrata, Brady.
irregularis, d'Orbigny.
sphæra, d’Orbigny.
Spiroloculina limbata, d’Orbigny.
tenuis (Czjzek).
Miliolina oblonga (Montagu).
secans (d’Orbigny).
seminulum (Linné).
venusta (Karrer).
Planispirina celata (Costa).
Hyperammina vagans, Brady.
Rhablammina abyssorum, Sars.
discreta, Brady.
Reophax bacillaris, Brady.
di flugiformis, Brady.
distans, Brady.
nodulosa, Brady.
pilulifera, Brady.
Haplophragmium agglutinans (d’Orbigny).
foliaceum, Brady.
globigeriniforme(Parkerand Jones).
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
tenuimargo, Brady.
Hormosina globulifera, Brady.
oricula, Brady.
Ammodiscus charoides (Jones and Parker).
gordialis (Jones and Parker).
incertus (l'Orbigny).
Trochammina pauciloculata, Brady.
Webbina clavata, Jones and Parker.
Cyclammina cancellata, Brady.
Textularia sagittula, Defrance (?).
Verneuilina pygmæa (Egger).
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
siphonella, Reuss.
Clavulina communis, d'Orbigny.
Bulimina aculeata, d'Orbigny.
contraria (Reuss).
inflata, Seguenza.
Pyrula, d’Orbigny.
Bolicina amygdalæformis, Brady.
Chilostomella ovoidea, Reuss.
Lagena apiculata (Reuss).
aspera, Reuss.
elongata (Ehrenberg).
formosa, Schwager.
globosa (Montagu).
gracillima (Seguenza).
99
