1162
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Station 311.
CEPHALODISCUS (MʻIntosh, Zool. pt. 62).
Cephalodiscus dodecalophus, n.g., n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality. Only species
of the genus.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Ascidia tenera, n.sp. Three specimens ; obtained also at Station 320, 600 fathoms.
Colella ramulosa, n.g.,n.sp. About twelve specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Amaroucium recumbens, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Leptoclinum tenue, n.sp. About twenty specimens ; obtained also at Stations 308
and 320.
propinquum, n.sp. Several specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Centroscyllium granulatum, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Macrurus fasciatus, n.sp. Five specimens; obtained also at Stations 305 and 309.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Epizoanthus (?) on Gorgonoid stems, Euryale, Ophiomywa, two specimens of Ophiolepis,
and several other Ophiurids of three species (only two species of Ophiuroidea noted
above), very many specimens of Hemiaster of two species, Aphroditacean, Dentalium,
several specimens of Patella (?), Idmonea, and Terebratula.
1
.
Excluding Protozoa, over 350 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 65 species, of which 42 are new to science, including
representatives of 7 new genera; 16 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed during the examination of the deposit from this Station; the single pelagic
species (Globigerina bulloides) makes up about 23 per cent. of the carbonate of lime
present in the deposit :
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
elongata, d'Orbigny.
ringens (Lamarck).
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina auberiana (d'Orbigny).
oblonga (Montagu).
seminulum (Linné).
Reophax scorpiurus, Montfort.
Haplophragmium canariense (d’Orbigny).
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Clavulina communis, d'Orbigny.
Bulimina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
pyrula, d’Orbigny.
Cassidulina crassa, d’Orbigny.
lævigata, d'Orbigny.
Lagena distoma, Parker and Jones.
hispida, Reuss.
lævis (Montagu).
striata (d'Orbigny).
striatopunctata, Parker and Jones.
Nodosaria (Glandulina) læviyata, d’Orbigny.
(Dentalina) pauperata, d'Orbigny.
