34
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
The Arctic Ocean (inclusive of the Norwegian Sea).
This ocean is bounded on the south by the Faroe Ridge, at a depth not exceeding
260 fathoms, extending from Iceland in a south-east direction to a point 45 miles south
of Faroe. To this succeeds a deeper channel, the Wyville Thomson Ridge, 30 miles
across, descending to 380 fathoms, on the east of which commences a shorter ridge,
with a depth of 260 fathoms, connecting it with the mainland of Scotland. Since the
shallowest part of the sea from Iceland to Greenland is less than 260 fathoms, it
follows that this ocean is a “closed sca” at all depths greater than 260 fathoms, except
for the short distance of 30 miles where the ridge sinks down to 380 fathoms.
Owing to the prevailing south-westerly winds and accompanying current, the
isothermals of the surface of the sea from 60° to 45° are pushed to higher latitudes than
anywhere else on the globe, and it is to be remarked that the isothermals of the
surface water of the sea are, for the same positions, much higher than those for the air.
The line of maximum temperature is not close to the coast, but lies out in the Atlantic
a considerable way from the west coasts of Europe. The extension of the isothermal
of 40° eastwards round the north of Norway, and of the isothermal of 30° northwards
beyond Spitzbergen, are points of great interest in connection with the distribution of
the isobars and prevailing winds of this region.
It is not only higher temperatures but also higher specific gravities that this great
oceanic current conveys into high latitudes. Thus in the North Pacific the specific
gravity of 1.0260 extends only to about lat. 33° N., and in the South Pacific, South
Atlantic, and Indian Ocean it just passes lat. 40° S. in a few places. In the North
Atlantic, however, it extends as far north as lat. 72° N. and the specific gravity of
1.0255 to lat. 78° N. This northern extension of the region of high temperature and
specific gravity is doubtless occasioned by the complete absence of icebergs in the
eastern division of this ocean. The important result is that the higher temperature of
the surface descends to greater depths in this ocean than would otherwise be the case.
The lowering of the specific gravities, by the rivers and rainfall, from the English
Channel northwards along the west coast of Norway to Vardö is strongly marked.
It will be observed that at 100 fathoms there is an area to the south-west of
Spitzbergen, extending as the depth increases, where the temperature is only 30°. This
is the region where the prevailing winds, after curving round from the south-west to
the north-east, sweep along the fields of Arctic ice, in relation to which the course of
the isothermal of 35° is interesting. At this depth the highest temperature is close in
shore to the eastward.
The specific gravities closely follow those of the surface. The mean of ten
observations about lat. 73° N. and long. 0° to 40° E. is 1.0258, which is very greatly in
excess of any specific gravity observed in any ocean in similar latitudes. These,
