1114
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Station 297.
;
a small Sponge, and about four litres of manganese nodules, while about three litres of
nodules were obtained in the tow-net attached to the trawl, along with a quantity of
Globigerina Ooze. The yellowish brown colour of this deposit is due to the presence of
manganese and iron, and, like the deposit at Station 292, it contained abundance of
volcanic ashes. In the examination of a large quantity of the deposit Mr. Murray
recognised only two or three Radiolaria and a few siliceous spicules. The association of
manganese nodules here in a Globigerina Ooze with a considerable quantity of basic
volcanic glass, fine areolar volcanic ash, and palagonitic grains, deserves special mention
indeed, this association of altered basic volcanic material and
manganese
is
very constant
in deep-sea deposits. While there were perfect casts of Foraminifera observed in the
nuclei of many of the nodules, no casts of these organisms were found in the deposit
itself. The accumulation of free silica in these nuclei is very remarkable, especially when
the small proportion of siliceous organisms in the deposit is remembered. One of the
tow-nets contained several rounded lumps of the deposit, loosely held together by dendritic
depositions of manganese and iron, which seemed to indicate the beginning of the nodule
formation. Proceeded under steam. Seven Mother Carey's chickens and three albatrosses
(Diomedea exulans) were shot, and prions, mutton birds, and another petrel were seen,
but birds were on the whole rare, a single one or occasionally two coming along at
intervals.
Juan Fernandez distant at noon, 302 miles. Made good 88 miles. Amount of
current 3 miles, direction S. 39° W.
1
ANIMAL FROM
TRAWL.
The following species is recorded from the trawl at this Station :-,
TETRACTINELLIDA (Sollas, Zool. pt. 63).
Thenea sp. (possibly young of Thenea wrightii, n.sp.).
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface and deep
tow-nets at this Station :
Cleonardo longipes, n.g., n.sp.
Lanceola
sp. (?).
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Spongocore puella, Haeckel.
Chiastolus amphicopium, Haeckel.
Phormocampe conus, Haeckel.
Castanella thomsoni, Haeckel.
Castanidium wildi, Haeckel.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 58).
Dexiobranchæa polycotyla,
Boas,
(larvæ).
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Pardaliscoides tenellus, n.g., n.sp.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Tracheloteuthis (?) sp.
1
