SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
845
Distance at noon from Lord North Island, 94 miles ; from Warren Hastings Island, Station 215.
133 miles; and from Greenwich Island, 1485 miles. Made good 75 miles. No current.
The following species is recorded from the trawl at this Station :-
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Hymenodora glauca, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 159.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this OrganiSMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Station 3
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Pleuraspis horrida, Haeckel.
Coscinaspis ceriopora, Haeckel.
Acontaspis hastata, Haeckel (?).
Psilomelissa galeata, Haeckel.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Dictyomitra macilenta, Haeckel.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books (February 12 to 15):-
Oscillatoriaceæ, Peridinium, Pyrocystis noctiluca and Pyrocystis fusiformis, Coscinodiscus
rex and other Diatoms, Globigerina (various species) and Pullenia in great abundance,
Orbulina, Pulvinulina, Acanthometræ in large numbers, Acineta on the tail of a Copepod,
Physalia (apparently different from the Atlantic species), Diphyes, Velella, and other
Siphonophoræ, Semper's golden-haired Cælenterate larva, Sagitta, Alciopa, Terebella
larva with otoliths, Sipunculid larvæ, Planarians, Copepods, Rhabdosoma, Phronima,
Phronimella, Zoëæ of Euphausia, Amphion, Firoloida with egg-strings, Cardiopoda,
Atlanta and larvæ, various species of Pteropods, small Cephalopod, Appendicularia,
Salpa (two species-single and in chains), young Amphiozus and other small fishes.
Several schools of dolphins were seen, and some fishes jumping out of the water.
Mr. Murray observed the protoplasm in Globigerina rubra moving up and down
the spines ; this was rendered visible by the small refrigerent particles and a thickening
of the sarcode. The large oval-shaped symbiotic yellow cells (similar to those of the
Radiolaria) moved about in the fluid-sarcode, and came outside the shell, forming a thick
layer on the surface of the shell ; some of these zooxanthellæ proceeded some distance up
the spines, and sometimes they formed into clumps of six to a dozen, and had a curious
rotating and advancing motion, apparently independent of the fluid. Delicate
pseudopodia were also observed in Pulvinulina.
Moseley writes: “The tow-net yielded a very rich harvest, being full of oceanic
forms and their larvæ, without any shore larvæ. Pteropods were abundant, also Atlanta
with its larvæ, having four long ciliated processes of the velum, as figured in Bronn's
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.--1893.)
107
