842
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 214.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zcol. pt. 42).
Trochus (Margarita) streptophorus, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Pleurotoma (Surcula) dissimilis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Scaphander niveus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Cirroteuthis meangensis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 171.
Polyzoa (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Bifaxaria lævis, n.g., n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus villosus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 232, 345 fathoms.
Bathygadus multifilis, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Sternoptyx diaphana (Herm.). Six specimens; for distribution see Station 101.
Nannobrachium nigrum, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Omosudis lowii, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Madeira. Only species of the genus.
Malacosteus indicus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Recorded
subsequently from Indian Ocean (“ Investigator").
Synaphobranchus pinnatus (Gronov.). Two specimens; for distribution see
Station 125.
7
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Actinian on shell inhabited by Pagurus, several small urchins, Peltogaster in Ophiurid,
Lernæonema, valve of Hinnites, and seven much injured specimens of Coccia ovata (?).
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 200 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 73 species, of which 59 are new to science, including
representatives of 15 new genera; 37 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The trawl brought up many Pentacrini, having as parasites
(1) Lepadid and (2) Balanid external on the branches, and (3) Myzostoma in cysts of
the arms, sometimes three together. Very likely the young Myzostoma bores itself
in (how ?) and grows there, damaging the arms of the Pentacrinus so much that they
break most easily at the place chosen by the parasite. These parasitic forms probably
never lead a free life, but discharge their eggs inside the cyst, from which they escape
