1
SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1089
On the nodules were Rhizopod and Serpula tubes, and a flask-shaped structure, about Station 285.
half a centimetre in diameter, which appeared to be the egg-capsule of some Mollusc.
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 11 species, of which 6 are new to science, including
representatives of 3 new genera; 2 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
The following species of Foraminifera and Radiolaria were observed in the deposit ORGANISMS FROM
from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The single pelagic species (Globigerina bulloides)
makes up about 76 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit.
Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Hyperammina ramosa, Brady.
Reophax scorpiurus (Montfort).
Haplophragmium glomeratum, Brady.
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Trochammina trullissata, Brady.
Verneuilina pygmæa (Egger).
Spiroplecta biformis (Parker and Jones).
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
Bulimina buchiana, d'Orbigny.
Lagena acuta (Reuss).
x Gloingerina bulloides, d'Orbigny,
Truncatulina pygmæa, Hantken.
Nonionina pompilioides (Fichtel and Moll).
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Solenosphæra megalactis, Haeckel.
Stylosphæra urania, Haeckel.
Amphistylus glyptodon, Haeckel.
Spongostylus serratus, Haeckel.
Staurosphæra bartholomæi, Haeckel.
Heliosphæra cristata, Haeckel.
Cromyatractus ceparius, Haeckel.
Cyphanta colpodes, Haeckel.
Cyphonium mammarium, Haeckel.
Truchodiscus cingillum, Haeckel.
Sethodiscus cristatus, Haeckel.
Tessarastrum örunonis, Haeckel.
Streblacantha calcarina, Haeckel.
Hexaplecta triaconia, Haeckel.
Tiarospyris amphora, Haeckel.
Amphispyris subquadrata, Haeckel.
Acrobotrys apuaria, Haeckel.
Sethopyramis trapezoides, Haeckel.
Stichocorys huschkei, Haeckel.
Artocapsa octocamera, Haeckel.
Aulographis tetrancistra, Haeckel.
Circoporus characeus, Haeckel.
Cælodendrum lappaceum, Haeckel.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the deep tow-nets at ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
this Station :-
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Thysanopoda obtusifrons, n.sp.
Bentheocaris exuens, n.g., n.sp.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books from the surface :-
Pyrocystis, Ethmodiscus and other Diatoms, Globigerina, many Radiolaria of all
the divisions, Siphonophoræ, Tomopteris, Sipunculid larve, Planarian larvæ, Evadne,
Cypridina, Copepods, small Lamellibranchs, and Pteropods.
