SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1265
Depth, 2965 fathoms ; deposit, Red Clay, containing 11.12 per cent. of carbonate Station 353.
of lime (see Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.).
At 1.15 P.M. shortened and furled sails, and proceeded under steam. At 2 P.M.
sounded in 2965 fathoms. The sounding-tube had sunk fourteen inches into the bottom
and brought up over a litre of Red Clay, the deeper portions being darker coloured, and
containing less carbonate of lime, than the surface layers; manganese grains and fishes'
teeth were more abundant in the lower layer. Took serial temperatures down to
1500 fathoms. The carbonic acid was determined in water from 200 fathoms and
bottom (?), and amounted respectively to 38.7 and 36.8 milligrammes per litre. On the
evening of May 1 a straggling flock of birds, possibly wide-awakes, were seen at a great
distance from the ship.
Fayal Island, Azores, distant at noon, 780 miles. Made good 158 miles. Amount
of current 25 miles, direction S. 67° W.
1
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40). — The following species of Radiolaria were
observed in the deposit from this Station :-
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
Cenosphæra plutonis, Ehrenberg.
Staurosphæra jacobi, Haeckel.
Staurolonche gassendii, Haeckel.
Hexalonche castanella, Haeckel.
Haliomma horridum, Stöhr.
Cromyomma qualrupler, Haeckel.
Prunulum triplex, Haeckel.
Ommatocampe erucæ formis, Haeckel.
Desmocampe aphrodite, Haeckel.
Sethostaurus rhombostaurus, Haeckel.
Ommatodiscu« fragilis, Stöhr.
Stylovlictya octogonia, Haeckel.
Euchitonia lanceolata, Haeckel.
Pentophiastrum randatum, Hueckel.
Dendrospyris ramosa, Haeckel.
Petalospyris papillata, Haeckel.
Botry.cella trirellaris, Haeckel.
Archiphormis cancellata, Haeckel.
Lophoconux cornutella, Haeckel.
Theocapsa forskalii, Haeckel.
Auloceros trigeminus, Haeckel.
Otohara singera, Taeckel.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in the ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-Ners. !
vicinity of this Station :-
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Sphærozoum ovorilimare, Haeckel.
Collosphæra polygona, Haeckel.
Siphonosphæra socialis, Haeckel.
Xiphosphæra ceres, Haeckel.
Staurolonche pertusa, Haeckel.
Hecastylus longispinus, Haeckel.
Halionma tenuispinum, Müller.
tenellum, Haeckel.
Echinomma sphærechinus, Haeckel.
Rhizoplegma trigonacantha, Haeckel.
Spongosphæra polyacantha, Müller.
Rhizosphæra leptomita, Haeckel.
Spongirus spongechinus, Haeckel.
Cyphonium cribellum, Haeckel.
Distriactis alterna, Haeckel.
Chitonastrum dicranodes, Haeckel.
Trizonium decabelonium, Haeckel.
Tetrapyle tetracantha, Haeckel.
