SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
807
STATION 208.
Nassaria suturalis, Adams, var. bitubercularis, Adams. Obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia,
New Guinea, and Malacca.
Strombus (Gallinula) columba, Lamarck. Obtained also at Station 212, 10 to
20 fathoms. Recorded from Indian and Pacific Oceans.
Terebellum punctatum, Chemnitz. Obtained also at Station 172.
Separatista chemnitzïï, Adams. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Philippines.
Vatica (Mamma) draparnaudi, Recluz. Obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Philippines.
Xenophora solarioides (Reeve). Obtained also at Station 212 and Torres Strait.
POLYZOA (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Nellia oculata, Busk. Obtained also at Stations 148, 151, 188, 190, and Bahia.
Amphiblestrum papillatum, n.g., n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Retepora mucronata, n.sp. Two or three fragments; obtained at no other locality.
Microporella personata (Busk). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Falklands.
Lepralia fecgeensis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Hong Kong
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Polycarpa irregularis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Botrylloides tyreum, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :
Renillid, two Sertularians, small urchin, several Annelids, Balanus, Squilla, Cymothod,
Solea, Diodon, Platycephalus, and Hippocampus.
1
Excluding Protozoa, over 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 95. species, of which 31 are new to science,
including representatives of 3 new genera ; 28 of the new species and 1 new genus
were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhmi writes: “The fauna was not very interesting ; except a large
Comatula and a spotted Ilolothurian ; the things obtained were not extraordinary in look
or size, being chiefly Sponges and fleshy polyps, containing a lot of Annelids, which came
out as the Sponges died off in water, and also the Balanid Acasta, of which four species
were known to Darwin from the Philippines, all living in Isis and Sponges. Eschara,
