SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
803
STATION 208.
Temperature of water at surface, 81°:0.
Density at 60° F. at surface, 1.02517.
Depth, 18 fathoms ; deposit, Blue Mud.
In the course of the forenoon passed between Zupata Mayor and Tintololo Islands,
and near the track of November 1, 1874. At 3 P.M. stopped about 10 miles E. of
Gigantes Island and obtained three hauls with the trawl in 18 fathoms, many specimens
being brought up. At 4.50 P.m. proceeded S.S.E., Pan de Azucan Island and the E.
coast of Panay Island in sight to the westward. Later in evening passed Tanguingi
Island, a small patch barely showing above the sea-surface. At 10 P.M. sighted Gato
Island, a pyramidal rock rising abruptly out of the water, and the N. extremity of Zebu
Island. About midnight passed through channel between Chocolate Island and Pulo
Luzon. When near Gato Island there was a slight squall from the N.E. accompanied by
vivid flashes of lightning.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this Animals FROM
Station
TRAWL.
KERATOSA (Poléjaeff, Zool. pt. 31).
Cacospongia dendroides, n.sp. Three specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
oligoceras, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
|
MoxAXONIDA (Ridley and Dendy, Zool. pt. 59).
Petrosia similis, n.sp., var. compacta, nov. One specimen ; obtained at no other
locality.
truncata, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
variabilis (Ridley), var. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
Pachychalina fragilis, n.sp. Several specimens; obtained at no other locality.
melior, n.sp. Two specimens; obtained at no other locality.
fibrosa, 1.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Bermuda (?) and Bahia.
Chalina rectangularis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Gellius varius (Bowerbank). Several specimens ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Malacca Strait and Australia.
Esperella parishië (Bowerbank). One specimen (encrusting Pecten shell); obtained
at no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Malacca Strait and Australia.
Rhaphidophlus filifer, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Hymeniacidon (?) subacerata, 1.sp. Three specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
