859
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 218.
9
"
Х
Lagena interrupta, Williamson
lavigata (Reuss).
lævis (Montagu).
longispina, Brady.
marginata (Walker and Boys).
orbignyana (Seguenza).
iata (d'Orbigny).
trigono-ornata, Brady.
Nodosaria communis, d'Orbigny.
(Glandulina) lævigata, d'Orbigny.
Polymorphina angusta, Egger.
Urigerina asperula, Czjzek.
x Globigerina æquilateralis, Brady.
bulloiiles, d'Orbigny.
conglobata, Brady.
dubia, Egger.
x Globigerina rubra, d'Orbigny,
Х
sacculi
fera, Brady:
x Orbulina universa, d’Orbigny.
x Pullenia obliquiloculata, Parker and Jones.
Sphæroidina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
dehiscens, Parker and Jones.
Truncatulina ungeriana (d'Orbigny).
wuellerstorfi (Schwager).
x Pulvinulina menardii (d'Orbigny).
partschiuna (l'Orbigny).
pauperata, Parker and Jones.
tumida, Brady,
umbonata, Reuss.
Rotalia orbicularis, d'Orbigny.
soldanii, d'Orbigny.
Nonionina umbilicatula (Montagu).
x
Х
Х
Х
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.— The following species are recorded from the surface at
this Station :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Psilomelissa galeata, Haeckel.
Acrosphæra collina, Haeckel.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Coscinaspis isopora, Haeckel.
Dictyomitra macilenta, Haeckel.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books (March 1 and 2):
Oscillatoriaceæ, Globigerina, Medusa and larvæ, Siphonophoræ and larvæ, Echinoderm
larvæ (Holothurid and Asterid), Sagitta, Aphroditacean and other Annelid larvæ,
Sipunculid larva, Tornaria, Copilia, Setella, Saphirina, Hyperia, Zoëæ and Nauplii,
Atlanta, Firoloida, Cymbulia with mutilated animal, Pteropod and other shells,
Appendicularia, small fishes (Scopelus with scales and phosphorescent spots, young
of
sword-fish, and small Percoid). A number of small whales (black fish) were seen near
the ship
AT ADMIRALTY
ISLANDS.
The Challenger remained at the Admiralty Islands from March 3 to 10, 1875,
during which time the naturalists were engaged making collections and observations on
shore, and Mr. Murray took several dredgings in shallow water from the steam pinnace
(for description of the islands see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 696-730). The
deposits in Nares Harbour in 16 to 25 fathoms were Coral Sands and Muds, con-
taining 86-87 per cent. of carbonate of lime; the beach of the main island was
composed of sand, containing 27-30 per cent. of carbonate of lime. The following species
are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the vicinity of the Admiralty Islands :-
KERATOSA (Poléjaeff, Zool. pt. 31).
Carteriospongia otahitica (Esper). Numerous specimens (Wild Island, reefs);
obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
ANIMALS FROM
ADMIRALTY
ISLANDS.
