REPORT ON SPIRULA.
17
lar ciety
late
al centre
the func-
en
een z.main
2
III a
VAD
Vio
VI
posteriorly, thin threads proceeding towards the heart and the kidneys, and transversely
to the right and left a branchial nerve which penetrates into the branchial axis, without
swelling, at its base, into an “olivary" ganglion."
As to the pallial nerves, they proceed from lateral portions (pleural ganglia) of the
posterior infra-csophageal mass; they are exceedingly
strong (Pl. V. pl.n. ; Fig. N, x), directed towards the
dorsal side, traversing the wall of the “mesosoma ” and
arriving at the mantle, at the very point where the latter
is joined to this mesosoma ; at this point they form, as in
all the Dibranchiates, “stellate” pallial ganglia, without
being bifurcated before entering into these.
The two stellate ganglia are united by a curved commis-
sure (with anterior concavity), very thin (Fig. N, iv), but
appearing stronger because it is joined to a venous trunk,
which the nervous cord accompanies through all its course,
passing to the surface of the mesosoma covering the anterior
extremity of the shell; from the middle of the curve there
arise a vein and a perve directed forwards (Fig. N, ii),
which, passing over the dorsal margin of the shell opening,
become recurrent and run along, following the median line,
the part of the mantle contained in the last chamber of the Fig. N.--Spirvla reticulata, dorsal view,
the anterior part of the mantle re-
shell, the venous trunk emptying itself into the vena cava moved on this side (the internal part
(see Circulatory System).
x 4. i, mantle edge ; ii, median
nerve ; iii, nerve of the fin; iv, com-
This commissure, with its median nerve, ought to be missure of the stellate ganglia; v, fin;
vi, terminal disk ; vii, dorsal external
considered as formed by the two original pallial nerves of
part of the shell; viii, internal part
of the shell ; ix, stellate ganglion ; x,
Cephalopods fused together, and the larger pallial nerves
pallial nerve.
situated beyond the stellate ganglia (innervating especially the fins; Fig. N, iii) are
adventitious formations necessitated by the great development of the margins of the
1 Homologue of the osphradial ganglion of other Molluscs, but not functionally equivalent; in various
Cephalopods this “olivary” or branchial ganglion is rather superficial (example, Eledone), but it does not send
nervous fibres to the subjacent epithelium, and this does not contain any special sensorial cells. The fact
that the osphradium has not yet taken its rise in Cephalopods is explained by the presence of the olfactory
rhinophoric fossa at the entrance of the pallial cavity on the side where respiratory water enters, which
renders a second olfactory organ (osphradium properly so-called) useless. The interbranchial papilla of
Nautilus, identified by Lankester and Bourne (Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci., vol. xxiii. p. 343, 1883), with the
osphradium of Molluscs, is not itself a sensorial organ, and does not contain any ganglion homologue of
the osphradial centre. But it appears to constitute simply a protective apparatus of a sensorial region,
situated on the portion of the internal face of the mantle immediately anterior to the papilla, which is
inclined above it; in this region a branch of the branchial nerve is divided into very numerous twigs, which
send a great many bundles to the epithelium.
2 As well as in “Loligopsis” (Leachia), according to Grant (On the structure and characters of
Loligopsis, Trans. Zool. Soc. London, vol. i., 1833).
(ZOOL. CHALL. EXP.-PART LXXXIII.—1894.)
of the shell shown by a broken line);
lowers
T
and er
point de
شر
3
