SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1111
STATION 296.
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Bairdia hirsuta, n.sp.
Obtained also at Station 300, 1375 fathoms.
Cythere dictyon, n.sp. Widely distributed (see Station 24).
normani, Brady (?). Obtained also at Station 150.
acanthoderma, n.sp. For distribution see Station 64.
dasyderma, n.sp. Widely distributed (see Station 5).
Krithe producta, n.sp. Widely distributed (see Station 70).
Cytheropteron mucronalatum, n.sp. For distribution see Station 70.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Large
spicule of Hyalonema, fragment of a second Holothurian, long coiled narrow flexible tube
(probably the egg-capsule of a Mollusc), fragment of a shrimp, and a Polyzoon-one of
the Salicornariadæ.
Excluding Protozoa, over 20 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 17 species, of which 10 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera; 2 of the new genera and species were not obtained
elsewhere.
9
The following species of Foraminifera and Radiolaria were observed in the deposit ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up about
85 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x.
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Thurammina albicans, Brady.
var. murrhyna, Schwager.
papillata, Brady.
elongata, d'Orbigny.
Hormosina normani, Brady.
Spiroloculina tenuis (Czjzek).
Ammodiscus gordialis (Jones and Parker).
Miliolina circularis (Bornemann).
Trochammina galeata, Brady.
seminulum (Linné).
Textularia aspera, Brady.
valvularis (Reuss) (?).
Verneuilina propinqua, Brady.
venusta (Karrer).
Pygmæa (Egger).
Pelosina sp. (?).
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Clavulina communis, d'Orbigny.
Hyperammina ramosa, Brady.
Bulimina elegans, d'Orbigny.
subnodosa, Brady.
elongata, d'Orbigny.
vagans, Brady.
ovata, d'Orbigny.
sp. ().
Virgulina schreibersiana, Czjzek.
Marsipella cylindrica, Brady.
subdepressa, Brady.
Aschemonella (1) sp.
subsquamosa, Egger.
Rhizammina algæformis, Brady.
te.cturata, Brady
Reophax dentaliniformis, Brady.
Bolivina punctata, d'Orbigny.
Haplophragmium anceps, Brady.
textilarioides, Reuss.
globigeriniforme (Parker and Pleurostomella subnodosa, Reuss.
Jones)
Cassidulina subglobosa, Brady.
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Ehrenbergina serrata, Reuss.
