1120
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
AT VALPARAISO.
The Challenger remained at Valparaiso from November 19 till December 11, 1875
(see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 842-843). The deposit off Valparaiso in 41 fathoms
was a Blue Mud, containing only a trace of carbonate of lime. The following species
are recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been obtained during the stay :-
ANIMALS FROM
VALPARA[80.
ASTEROIDEA (Sladen, Zool. pt 51).
Stichaster aurantiacus (Meyen), Verrill. (Shore); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Chili and Peru.
Heliaster helianthus (Lamarck), Dujardin and Hupé. (Shallow water); obtained at
no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Ecuador, Chili, and Peru.
ECHINOIDEA (Agassiz, Zool. pt. 9).
Arbacia nigra (Molin). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
7
ANOMURA (Henderson, Zool. pt. 69).
Petrolisthes violaceus (Guérin). Four specimens (beach); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Chilian coast.
validus (Dana). Several specimens (beach); obtained also in
Messier Channel. Recorded from Valparaiso (?).
BRACHYURA (Miers, Zool. pt. 49).
Cancer longipes, Bell. Two specimens (shore); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Acanthocyclus gayi, M.-Edwards and Lucas. Two specimens (beach); obtained also
in Messier Channel. Recorded from Chili, Patagonia, and
Magellan Strait.
Leptograpsus variegatus (Fabricius). One specimen (shore); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. A widely-distributed species.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Fissurella crassa, Lamarck. (Shore); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Chili.
maxima, Sowerby. (Shore); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Chili, Peru, and Rio Janiero.
Trochus (Chlorostoma) ater, Lesson. (Shore); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Chili, Bolivia, and Magellan Strait.
Litorina peruviana (Lamarck). (Shore); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Chili and Peru.
