SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1165
Station 312.
Polyzoa (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Carbasca ovoidea, Busk. Many specimens ; for distribution see Station 144.
Schizoporella longispinata, n.sp. Many specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Magasella flexuosa (King). Thirteen specimens; obtained also at Station 315,
5 to 12 fathoms. Recorded from Patagonia.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 17).
Boltenia legumen, Lesson. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 315 and 316,
4 to 12 fathoms. Recorded from Antarctic, Falklands, Possession
Bay, Philip Bay, Peckett Harbour, and British Islands.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Agonus chiloensis, Jen. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Aphritis gobio, Günther. Obtained also at Stations 307 and 308.
Notothenia longipes, Steindachner. Obtained also at Stations 306 and 313.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Sponge
and two or three large Annelids (Eunice ?) in tough leathery tubes.
Excluding Protozoa, over 200 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this Station, belonging to about 23 species, of which 6 are new to science, including
representative of 1 new genus ; 4 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been obtained in Animals FROM
Magellan Strait and other channels between the Gulf of Peñas and Sandy Point, in shallow
MAGELLAN
water, on shore, &c.:
STRAIT.
MonAXONIDA (Ridley and Dendy, Zool. pt. 59).
Halichondria caduca, Bowerbank. One specimen (S. W. Patagonia); obtained at
no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
British seas.
Reniera aquæductus, Schmidt, var. infundibularis, nov. Two or three specimens
(S. W. Patagonia); obtained also at Station 307.
Tedania infundibuliformis, n.sp. One specimen (S. W. Patagonia); obtained at
no other locality.
Myxilla mariana, n.sp., var. massa, nov. One specimen (S. W. Patagonia); the
species obtained also at Marion Island.
Hymeniacidon (?) hyalina, n.sp. Two or three specimens (S.W. Patagonia);
obtained at no other locality.
147
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.--1893.)
