SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
843
by a small opening present in each of them. Near the mouth of an Ophiurid I found Station 214.
a large tumour containing a Bopyrus or Peltogaster inflated with eggs. One of the
smaller black fishes had a Lernæonema with egg-sacs on the middle of the body. There
were besides : a curious Aphroditacean very much like a Chiton in appearance
[ = Iphionella cimex), a Nephthydean Annelid, Sipunculus [ = Phascolosoma prioki], a
large Arcturus, another small Isopod, a fine large specimen of Cystisoma neptuni
[ = Cystisoma spinosum), several Caridids and Peneids, a young male of Gnathophausia
gigas [ = Gnathophausia calcarata], 7 mm. in length, a small specimen of Willemoesia
euthrix [ = Pentacheles lævis], which had lost the long chelæ, and a specimen of
Cirroteuthis, which genus, wonderfully illustrated by Prosch and Reinhardt in the Danish
Transactions under the name of Sciadephorus, we have taken before in deep water several
times, especially in the Antarctic.”
In Malacosteus there was a remarkable connecting band between the tongue and the
symphysis of the mandible ; no barbel was present. The larger club-shaped phosphorescent
spot immediately under the eye was of a dull red colour; the small round spot posterior
to this was of a beautiful light yellowish green colour. A Lernæan, mentioned above by
Suhm, was attached to this Malacosteus.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt, 22).— The following species of Foraminifera were ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
observed in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits
Chall. Exp.); the pelagic species, which make up about 73 per cent. of the carbonate of
lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x:-
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
x Orbulina universa, d'Orbigny.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
x Pullenia obliquiloculata, Parker and Jones.
lævigata, d'Orbigny.
x Sphæroidina dehiscens, Parker and Jones.
Uvigerina angulosa, Williamson.
x Candeina nitila, d'Orbigny.
* Globrigerina æquilateralis, Brady.
Truncatulina lobatula, Walker and Jacob.
bulloides, d'Orbigny:
x Pulvinulina menardii (d'Orbigny).
conglobata, Brady.
patagonica (d'Orbigny).
dubia, Egger.
tumida, Brady.
inflata, d'Orbigny
Rotalia soldanii, d'Orbigny.
sacculifera, Brady.
Nonionina umbilicatula (Montagu).
х
Х
х
х
Х
х
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Station :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40). FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78).
Psilomelissa galeata, Haeckel.
Psenes cyanophrys, C.V.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Dictyomitra macilenta, Haeckel.
Two hauls of the tow-net were taken at the surface, a few small Globigerina and a
few other things being procured, while a net sent down to 100 fathoms was lost.
