EXPLANATION OF CHARTS
CHARTS AND DIAGRAMS. .
APPENDIX I.
CHARTS.
?
Chart 1A.--Hemisphere showing the Atlantic Ocean on Lambert's equal-area projection. In pocket of
18.
Pacific
Cover to
10.
Indian
First Part.
These charts show the depths of the ocean so far as at present known. The positions of all soundings
over 1000 fathoms are shown, except where so close together as to cause confusion, and are represented by the
first two figures only, thus 24 stands for 2400 fathoms, 16 for 1600 fathoms, the last two figures being always
omitted. Basins are areas of the floor of the Ocean surrounded by low marine ridges, deeps are areas where
depths greater than 3000 have been obtained. The areas between the contour lines are marked out by
different shades of blue on the ocean and different shades of brown on the continents and other land surfaces.
Charts 2 to 43 show the positions of the Sounding and Dredging Stations, nature of the Deposits,
direction and force of the Wind and Surface Current, the following abbreviations and symbols being made
use of:
Figures enclosed thus, 37, indicate the position and distinguishing mumber of a Sounding,
Dredging, or Trawling Station. Figures in block letter, thus, 2650, indicate the depth in
Fathoms.
The letters under the depth indicate the nature of the Deposit at the bottom :--
gl. 07. signifying Globigerina Ooze.
r. m. signifying Red Mud.
pt. oz.
Pteropod Ooze.
Blue Mud.
di. 07.
Diatom Ooze.
calc.
calcareous.
rad, oz.
Radiolarian Ooze.
sand.
T. cl.
Red Clay.
mud.
crl. m.
Coral Mud.
stones.
Coral Sand.
sh.
shells.
volc. m.
Volcanic Mud.
gravel.
volc. s.
Volcanic Sand.
crl.
Coral.
Green Mud,
h. g.
hard ground.
Green Sand.
bl. m.
S.
m.
st.
crl. s.
9
gr. m.
gr. s.
Arrows thus,
indicate the mean direction of the Wind, the number at the base giving the mean
Force (in Beaufort's Scale). Arrows thus,
indicate the direction of the Surface Curr ent,
the numbers at the base giving the rate in miles per 24 hours.
The position of the Ship each day at Noon is indicated by a black dot. When the position at
noon corresponds with a Sounding Station the black dot is replaced by the number of the
Station. The day of the month is noted in hair line, thus, 25, and occasionally the month
and year are also given, the month being shown in Roman figures, thus, 1. V. 74.
DIAGRAMS.
Diagrams 1 to 22 show the vertical distribution of Temperature, the relief of the Bottom of the Sea, the
nature of the Deposits, and the percentages of Carbonate of Lime. In these Diagrams horizontal lengths or
distances from Station to Station are on a scale of 200 miles to the inch, and the depths are on a scale
of 500 fathoms to the inch, so that depths or heights, as compared with horizontal distances, are
exaggerated in the proportion of 400 to l. In looking, therefore, at the Plan as one of the bed of the
area, it must be remembered that the inclines as observed were 400 times less steep than they are repre-
