960
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 245.
Distance at noon from Honolulu, 1708 miles. Made good 132 miles. Amount of
current 15 miles, direction N. 16° W.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—The following species of Radiolaria were observed
in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall.
Exp.) :-
Clathrosphæra circumtexta, Haeckel.
Theocyrtis proserpina, Haeckel.
Aulographis hexancistra, Haeckel.
Auloceros dicranaster, Haeckel.
Aulospathis tetrodon, Haeckel.
Challengeria aldrichi, Murray.
Challengeron triangulum, Haeckel.
Haeckeliana darwiniana, Haeckel.
Tuscarora tubulosa, Murray.
Conchopsis compressa, Haeckel.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface and deep
nets at this Station :-
Castanidium bethelli, Haeckel.
Castanissa hoylei, Haeckel.
Conchidium rhynchonella, Haeckel.
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Sphærozoum trigeminum, Haeckel.
Siphonosphæra pipetta, Haeckel.
Stylosphæra nana, Haeckel.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Theocampe cryptoprora, Haeckel.
Aulacantha spinosa, Haeckel.
Auloceros furcosus, Haeckel.
Challengeria bromleyi, Haeckel.
Challengeron triodon, Haeckel.
Castanella balfouri, Haeckel.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Paraphronima cuivis, n.sp.
Phronima atlanticu, Guérin.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Hymenodora rostrata, n.sp.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books from the surface and
down to 50 fathoms :-Peridinium (Ceratium) tripos and other species, Diatoms,
Halosphæra, Globigerina, Orbulina, Pulvinulina micheliniana, Medusa, Siphonophoræ,
Cytherids, Saphirina and other Copepods, Zoëæ of Cirripeds (Archizoëa), Hyperids,
Oxycephalus, and other Amphipods, Zoëæ of Euphausia, Pteropods and larvæ, Salpa,
Doliolum, Appendicularia, Fritillaria. Quantities of Cirripeds in spherical masses, and
large specimens of Rhizostoma, were seen floating past. The tow-nets sent down to deep
water contained all the things taken at the surface, and in addition Phæodaria and many
other Radiolaria not found on the surface. Larger specimens of Pulvinulina and
Orbulina were taken in the deep hauls than in the surface ones.
A large school of
dolphins (Coryphæna) and sharks were about the ship in the afternoon and evening.
