936
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 237.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Eight specimens ; for distribution see Station 23.
Bathysaurus mollis, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 281,
2385 fathoms.
Notacanthus rissoanus, Filippi and Vérany. One specimen ; obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Mediterranean.
Synaphobranchus bathybius, n.sp. Nine specimens ; obtained also at Stations 146
and 246.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Palythoa on shells with Pagurus, two species of Holothuria (only one given above),
two Annelids, two Lernæans on Synaphobranchus, Cryptoniscus on Caridid shrimp,
three cuttlefishes (only two given above).
Excluding Protozoa, over 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 57 species, of which 45 are new to science,
including representatives of 11 new genera ; 25 of the new species and 1 new genus
were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
The following species of Foraminifera and Diatoms were observed in the deposit from
this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.):-
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22). — The pelagic species, which make up about
33 per cent. of carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x.
>
)
Biloculina depressa, d’Orbigny.
var. murrhyna, Schwager.
var. serrata, Brady.
Spiroloculina tenuis (Czjzek).
Miliolina insignis, Brady.
tricarinata (d'Orbigny).
trigonula (Lamarck).
Ophthalmidium inconstans, Brady.
Planispirina celata (Costa).
sigmoilea, Brady.
Cornuspira involvens, Reuss.
Pelosina cylindrica, Brady.
Storthosphæra (?) sp.
Technitella legumen, Norman.
melo, Norman.
Bathysiphon filiformis, Sars.
Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Jaculella obtusa, Brady.
Hyperammina ramosa, Brady.
subnodosa, Brady (3).
Marsipella cylindrica, Brady.
Rhabılammina abyssorum, Sars.
linearis, Brady.
Asche monella catenata (Norman).
Rhizammina algæformis, Brady.
Reophax allunca, Brady.
cylindrica, Brady (?).
dentuliniformis, Brady.
difflugiformis, Brady.
distans, Brady.
guttifera, Brady.
membranacea, Brady (?).
nodulosa, Brady.
pilulifera, Brady.
scorpiurus, Montfort.
spiculifera, Brady (?).
Haplophragmium anceps, Brady.
canariense (d'Orbigny).
globigeriniforme (Parker and Jones).
glomeratum, Brady.
