992
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 260.
sound and trawl. Put trawl over. Sounded in 310 fathoms, but no trace of the bottom
was obtained.
Obtained serial temperatures at intervals of 10 fathoms down to
200 fathoms. At 11 A.m. hove up trawl, which seemed to have fouled something at
the bottom as it came up almost empty, containing only a portion of branching coral
(Gorgonia), and a piece of black volcanic ash ; on the iron was a trace of calcareous
volcanic mud. Position of Station in strait between Molokai Island and Oahu Island.
Proceeded for Honolulu, and at 2.20 P.M. anchored outside Honolulu Harbour in
10 fathoms. At 3.20 P.M. weighed anchor and proceeded into harbour, anchoring at
4 P.M. in 5 fathoms off the town of Honolulu.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.- The following species are recorded from the surface at this
Station :-
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Acanthosphæra capillaris, Haeckel. Theopiliúm tricostatum, Haeckel.
Icosaspis cruciata, Haeckel.
Theocampe cryptoprora, Haeckel.
The tow-nets at the surface procured Globigerina, Orbulina, and other ordinary
oceanic organisms, and in addition large numbers of Cymbalopora (Tretomphalus)
bulloides. They were of two different sizes, the smaller ones united into fours by a
gelatinous substance. None of these specimens contained sarcode, similar to that found
in pelagic Foraminifera, but were filled with swarms of minute ciliated organisms, which
crossed the field of the microscope with a rapid rotatory motion ; when one of the shells
was crushed under a slide, a cloud of these organisms issued from the broken shell.
When treated with carmine these little organisms showed a deeply.coloured spot at one end.
;
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the surface of the
North Pacific, between Japan and the Sandwich Islands, the exact date not being
noted :
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Parapronoë campbelli, n.sp.
Rhincalanus gigas, n.sp.
Brachyscelus crusculum, Spence Bate.
Euchæta prestandreæ, Philippi.
Oxycephalus clausi, Bovallius (?).
Leuckartia (?) scopularis, n.sp.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Stylocheiron abbreviatum, n.g., n.sp.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Paraphronima cuivis, n.sp.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Phronima sp. (?).
Sergestes parvidens, n.sp.
Eupronoë sp. (?).
ventridentatus, n.sp.
hessei, n.sp.
