16
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
L
These are the only connective cords visible externally, the others (cerebro-pedal :
cpc.; cerebro-pleural : cchc.; pleuro-pedal : pchc.) being hidden under the cellular coating
of the centres. It is true, however, that the shrunken part binding together the
brachial and pedal ganglia, which are far apart from one another, may be called the
brachio-pedal connective cord, as in the Egopsids. But these brachial centres
(innervating the arms by their anterior part) and pedal centres (innervating the funnel
by their postero-ventral part) only constitute a single pair of ganglia as has been already
proved by the development.
In the pleuro-visceral centres should be distinguished :-
A. The pleural (lateral), from which arise the pallial nerves (pl.n.);? and
B. The true visceral ganglia, from which arise the visceral nerves (Pl. III. and
Pl. V., v.n.).
Fig. M.--Pedo-brachial connective of Ommatostrophes pteropus ; left-hand side view, magnified. i, brachial nerves; ii,
part of a brachial nerve coming from the pedal ganglion ; iii, pedal ganglion ; iv, brachial ganglion.
These latter nerves, which arise separately (Pl. V. fig. 2, v.n.), could not be followed in
Spirula peronii. In Spirula reticulata it has been shown that they are closely united
(Fig. S, xi) to the back of the anus, in the same manner as in the Egopsids, and not
by a long “commissure” as in Sepia. They do not, however, at their point of
junction form a true ganglion, as in the first mentioned. From this junction arise
1 In Ommatostrephes pteropus and Illex coindeti, examined for comparison with Spirula, are found, at the
surface of the pedo-brachial connective, ten nervous bundles coming from the pedal centres properly so-called,
and going each to be joined to one of the brachial nerves (Fig. M). There is then no need of histological
researches (like those of Owsjannikow and Kowalevski, Ueber das central nervensystem und das Gehörorgan
der Cephalopoden, Mem. Acad. d. Sci. St Pétersbourg, sér. 7, t. xi, 1867; and of Jatta, La innervazione delle
bracchia dei Cefalopodi, Boll. Soc. Natur. Napoli, anno 3, 1889) to show that the pedal ganglion (or of the
funnel) contributes to innervate the arms. A similar disposition has already been observed in other Egopsids
by Hancock (On the nervous system of Ommastrephes todarus, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 2, vol. x., 1852, p. 2),
Posselt (Todarodes sagittatus [Lamk.] Stp., Vidensk. Meddel. naturh. Foren., 1890, p. 238), and Appellöf
(Teuthologische Beiträge, ii., Bergens Museums Aarsberetning, 1890, p. 8).
2 In the paper : Pelseneer, Sur la valeur morphologique des bras et la composition du système nerveux
central des Céphalopodes (Arch. de Biol., t. viii., 1888), the ganglionic swellings from which arise the pallial
nerves have been interpreted as anterior visceral (p. 752), and the value of pleural centres was refused to
them (p. 749). A re-examination has made evident that all the visceral ganglionic elements form a single
median mass and that the pleural centres are indeed those from which arise the pallial nerves,
