SUMMARY OF RESULTS,
1457
now,
and at a latitude of 82° N. in the Arctic. The surface temperature of the sea could not Temperature
well have been less than about 70° F., and the same temperature and the same marine CARBONIFEROUS
fauna prevailed from equator to poles, the temperature not being higher at the equator. Perion.
Flowering plants did not exist in the coal period. Flowers with vivid and brilliant tints
only appeared in Mesozoic ages when for the first time the sun pierced the envelope of
dense clouds that surrounded the whole earth. The atmosphere was less agitated then than
In early Mesozoic times cooling at the poles and differentiation into zones of
climate appear to have commenced, and temperature conditions did not afterwards admit of
coral reefs in the polar area.
But the colder and hence denser water that in consequence
descended to the greater depths of the ocean carried with it a large supply of oxygen,
and life in the deep sea became possible for the first time. There have been many
speculations as to how a nearly uniform temperature could have been brought about
in sea-water over the whole surface of the earth in early geological ages, as well as
to how sufficient light could have been present at the poles to permit of the luxuriant
vegetation that once flourished in these regions. The explanation that appears to me
the most satisfactory is the one which attributes these conditions to the very much
greater size of the sun in the early stages of the earth's history-an idea first intro-
duced into geological speculations by Blandet, who likewise discussed the relations
of Arctic and Antarctic faunas-together with the greater amount of aqueous vapour in
the atmosphere and the greater mass of the atmosphere.
The pelagic Algæ, Radiolaria, and Foraminifera above referred to are probably the
but slightly modified descendants of a very ancient universal pelagic fauna and flora.
Life in its simplest form most likely first appeared in Pre-Cambrian times in the
detrital matters laid down about the mud-line, when the mud-line was generally not so
deep, and the land-surfaces were more extensive than at the present time. From these
simple forms, which would occasionally be carried into the superincumbent waters,
the pelagic Protophyta and Protozoa, which peopled the surface-waters of the Pre-
Cambrian ocean, were most probably derived. Radiolaria, and possibly also pelagic
Foraminifera, have been discovered in Pre-Cambrian rocks. From their remains being
PELAGIC FAUNA
preserved in these rocks we may suppose that the Radiolaria were then even more and FloRA OF THE
abundant than in modern scas, and their skeletons appear likewise to have been more Pre-Cambrian
OCEAN.
massive. Radiolaria and other silica-secreting organisms are much more abundant in
those parts of the present ocean where there is a low salinity and where the surface is
frequently affected by fresh water bearing the finest clayey matter in suspension.
have thus then a hint that the waters of the Pre-Cambrian ocean were probably not so
p. 884.
1 Lapparent, Traité de Géologie, ed. 3, Paris, 1893,
2 Bull. Soc. Geol. de France, ser. 2, t. 25, p. 777, 1867-8.
3 L. Cayeux, Sur la présence de restes de Foraminifères dans les terrains précambrian de Bretagne, Comptes Rendus,
tom. cxviii., p. 1433, 18.94.
