SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
967
temperatures, and put over line with tow-nets attached, veering 1500 fathoms. At 5 P.M. Station 247.
tow-nets were hauled up, and at 5.10 P.m. made all plain sail. Black albatrosses were
about the ship, and several were caught; ore of them was painted white, with the view
of recognising it again, and set free.
Prion-like birds were also seen.
Honolulu distant at noon, 1460 miles. Made good 99 miles. Amount of current
6 miles, direction S. 22° E.
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—The following species of Radiolaria were ORGANISMS FROM
observed in the deposit from this Station :-
THE DEPOSIT.
Clathrosphæra circumtexta, Haeckel.
Podocyrtis argulus, Ehrenberg.
Theocyrtis proserpina, Haeckel.
Distephanus pentasterias, Haeckel.
Aulographis hexancistra, Haeckel.
Auloceros dicranaster, Haeckel.
Challengeria aldrichi, Murray.
Challengeron triangulum, Haeckel.
Tuscarora tubulosa, Murray.
Conchopsis compressa, Haeckel.
Surface Organisms.- The following species are recorded from the surface in the ORGANISMS FROM
vicinity of this Station :-
SURFACE-NETS.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Paraphronima cuivis, n.sp.
Oxycephalus longiceps, Claus.
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Sphærozoum trigeminum, Haeckel.
Siphonosphæra pipetta, Haeckel.
Stylosphæra nana, Haeckel.
Plagoniscus euscenium, Haeckel.
Eucoronis arborescens, Haeckel.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Theocampe cryptoprora, Haeckel.
Aulacantha spinosa, Haeckel.
Auloceros furcosus, Haeckel.
Challengeria bromleyi, Haeckel.
Castanissa hoylei, Haeckel.
Conchidium rhynchonella, Haeckel.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pts. 58 and 65).
Dexiobranchæa minuta, n.sp.
Limacina lesueuri (d’Orbigny).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
Clio (Hyalocylix) striata (Rang).
Cavolinia trispinosa (Lesueur), young
( = Cleodora compressa,
Souleyet).
inflexa (Lesueur), young
( = Hyalæa depressa,
d'Orbigny).
Tow-nets were sent down to 1200 and 1500 fathoms, and brought up many Phæodaria
(the sarcode of which was nearly always dark coloured) and other Radiolaria, as well as
many of the ordinary surface organisms taken in the surface-nets. The specimens of
Pulvinulina taken in the deep nets seemed to be larger and more numerous than in the
surface-nets. In these deep hauls there were also a few of the Cyrtoidea, the shells of
