822
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 212.
Excluding Protozoa, over 250 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 84 species, of which 22 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera; 17 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: "Five little Stylifers were taken on the skin of a Holothurian;
a Porcellana seemed to live between the arms of a Virgularian ; a shell was found on
the branches of a Plumularian, the stem of which was occupied by a Polyzoon; and
a Sipunculid inhabited holes bored into the bases of the Corals Heterocyathus and
Heteropsammia. There were very few Sponges. The long blue compound Ascidians,
belonging to the genus Chondrostachys, were interesting, and there were besides specimens
belonging to the Botryllidæ. The Crustacea were represented by a crab, previously
taken near Tongatabu, Pagurus, Porcellana, and Remipes.”
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following are recorded in the note-books from the surface :-
Sagitta, larvæ of worms and Cirripeds in abundance, along with Copepods and other things.
AT THE
PHILIPPINES.
The expedition visited the Philippine Islands in October and November 1874, and
again, after returning from Hong Kong, in January and February 1875 (for description
of the islands see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 648-666). The following species are
recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been obtained in shallow water and on shore
during the stay in the vicinity of the Philippine Islands, principally at Samboangan and
Zebu:-
ANIMALS FROM
PHILIPPINES.
TETRACTINELLIDA (Sollas, Zool. pt. 63).
Craniella simillima (Bowerbank), var. (Samboangan); obtained also at
Stations 163B and 186.
Tethya seychellensis (Wright). One specimen (Samboangan); obtained also at
Station 186.
ALCYONARIA (Wright and Studer, Zool. pt. 64).
Melitodes philippinensis, n.sp. Several specimens (Samboangan reefs); obtained
at no other locality.
sinuata, n.sp. One specimen (Samboangan reefs); obtained at no other
locality.
Heliopora cærulea, Blainville. (Samboangan reefs); obtained also at Station 186.
Spongodes digitata, n.sp.. One specimen (Zebu reefs); obtained at no other locality.
spicata, n.sp. One specimen (Zebu reefs); obtained at no other locality.
Paranephthya capitulifera, n.g., n.sp. One specimen (Samboangan beach); obtained
at no other locality. Only species of the genus.
