2
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER,
this Spirula,' often reproduced, but this precious specimen disappeared without having
been further studied.?
The English Expedition to the Congo procured a fragment of Spirula (the posterior
extremity with the shell), which was deposited in the British Museum. In 1836, several
Spirula, not so complete as that of Péron, were taken by the French corvette “ La
Recherche,"4 upon the most perfect of which the first anatomical sketch of the genus,
by de Blainville, was based ;" he recognised especially the existence of a single pair
of gills. The first work of Owen does not add much to the discoveries of de Blainville,
his observations being likewise exclusively based on fragments.
A single specimen almost entirely intact had been collected at this time; it had already
been figured by Gray' and by Reeve, but it was only at a relatively recent period that
the collector to whom it belonged would permit Owen to study its organisation. His
memoir" is then the first description of a complete Spirula. Unfortunately, there are,
in the text as well as in the illustrations of this work, not only a considerable number
of important gaps, but a regrettable absence of even approximate precision, which render
the results much less important than we would have expected, all the more so, as in the
work there is a complete absence of the present ideas, tendencies, and pre-occupations of
Zoology. This memoir has, however, remained the only one containing an anatomical
description of a complete individual, for if Owen had the exceptional good fortune of
dissecting a second complete Spirula (male), his observations were limited to making
known, with as little precision, the sexual characters. 10
Another complete individual was collected in 1865 near Port Jackson, but it was
| Freycinet, Voyage de découvertes aux terres australes, pl. xxx. fig. 4, Paris, 1816.
2 "Malheureusement le seul et précieux spécimen qu'ils rapportèrent conservé dans la liqueur, et trouvé
mort et flottant en mer, s'est perdu au Muséum, où ils l'avaient déposé, avant même qu'une bonne description
pût nous consoler de cette perte” (Férussac et d'Orbigny, Histoire naturelle des Céphalopodes acétabulifères,
p. 55, Paris, 1848).
3 Gray, Catalogue of the Mollusca in the British Museum, Part I., Cephalopoda antepedia, 1849, p. 116.
4 Lettre de M. Robert sur les Spirules, sur le lamentin du Sénégal et sur l'existence dans cette région de
l'Afrique de l'hyène tâchetée (Comptes rendus Acad. Sci. Paris, t. ii., 1836, pp. 362, 363 ; id., in Ann. Sci. nat.
[Zoologie), sér. 2, t. v. pp. 226, 227, 1836).
5 De Blainville, Quelques observations sur l'Anatomie de la Spirula et sur l'usage du siphon des coquilles
polythalames (Ann. franc. et étrang. d'Anat. et de Phys., t. i., 1837, pp. 369-382).
6 Owen, Description of two mutilated specimens of Spirula peronii, with some observations on S. australis
and S. reticulata (Zoology of the voyage of H.M.S. “Samarang,” Mollusca, part i. pp. 6-17, pl. iv., 1848).
7 Gray, On the Animal of Spirula (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 1, vol. xv., 1845, pp. 257-260, pl. xv.).
8 Reeve, Elements of Conchology, 1846, p. 16, pl. A, figs. a-f.
9 Owen, Supplementary Observations on the Anatomy of Spirula australis, Lamarck (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist.,
ser. 5, vol. iii., 1879, pp. 1-16, pls. i.-iii.).
10 Owen, On the External and Structural Characters of the Male Spirula australis, Lam. (Proc. Zool. Soc.
London, 1880, p. 352, pl. xxxii.). Owen reports that this specimen was taken during the voyage of the “Bonite."
Souleyet, however, who was on board this ship, says expressly that they had not succeeded in capturing a Spirula
(Voyage autour du monde . . . sur la corvette la “Bonite," Zoologie, t. ii. p. 8, 1852).
