1460
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
BENTHOS OF THE
EAST AND WEST
REGIONS.
1
in polar areas, may be held to have produced a more rapid modification of species in
Coasts of Africa tropical waters than would take place in the colder waters towards the poles, so that
AND of the Polar it may be urged that these faunas on the east and west coasts of Africa, notwithstanding
their very distinct character, have not been separated from each other for so long a
time as the polar faunas which more closely resemble each other. When we remember,
however, that in the case of America the separation of the Atlantic and Pacific marine
faunas is not so complete at the Isthmus of Panama as on either side of Africa, it
may be assumed that the separation of marine faunas in the case of Africa is of much
greater antiquity, possibly extending back to a time when there was a nearly universal
climate all over the ocean. In the preceding extracts from Dr. Allman's Report
three different species of Grammaria are described from the Antarctic or Great
Southern Ocean, each occurring in depths less than 100 fathoms in the same
latitudes, but in widely different longitudes, viz., Grammaria insignis from Marion
Island, Grammaria stentor from Kerguelen, Grammaria magellanica from Fuegia.
A number of similar examples might be given from other widely separate points among
Antarctic Islands and land-masses where a genus is represented by a different species
in each area. This seems to show that these small land-masses in the Antarctic
and Great Southern Ocean have been separated from cach other for a sufficiently long
time to have admitted of specific variations arising even in the cold Antarctic waters,
and is consequently opposed to the view of a widely extended Antarctic continent,
connecting all the other continents by their southern extremities, in recent geological
times,” for, with such a wide extension of land in the southern ocean, we would rather look
for very many circumpolar species, as in the northern hemisphere, where continuous coast
lines have probably existed for immense periods of time in arctic and boreal latitudes.
ORGANISMS.
CONTINENTAL The distribution of the great continental land-masses appears, from what has been
LAND-MASSES AND
THE DISTRIBUTION stated, and from other facts that might be adduced, to have a great influence on the
OF MARINE
distribution of marine organisms, both in shallow water and in the deep sea. .
It is
abundantly evident that the land of the continents has been most unstable, and can
in no way be regarded as permanent, during the course of geological history. Not
only has the land been repeatedly torn down by denuding and disintegrating
agencies, but the various strata have been repeatedly shoved above and depressed
below the sea-level by those internal forces called into play chiefly by the
contraction of the internal nucleus of the globe, from loss of internal heat through
radiation into space. We may assume that the materials of the original crust
were somewhat homogeneous in composition. The destructive and reconstructive
processes here indicated, together with the action of organisms, have brought about
1 See page 1443 ante.
2 The Chatham Islands : their relation to a former Southern Continent, by Henry 0. Forbes, Royal Geographical
Society, Supplementary Papers, vol. iii., p. 607, 1893.
