910
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATIONS 233
AND 233A.
Capulus (Amathina) tricarinatus (Linné). Obtained also at Stations 186 and 187.
Crepidula aculeata (Gmelin). Obtained also at Port Jackson.
Lamellaria sp. (?).
Philine sp. (?).
Pleurobranchus sp. (?).
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Inioteuthis morsei, Verrill. Four specimens ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Hong Kong and Japan.
Sepia kobiensis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Loligo kobiensis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 233c, 12 fathoms.
POLYZOA (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Retepora victoriensis, n.sp. (?), var. japonica, nov. The species obtained also at
Station 161.
Lepralia japonica, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Styela clava, n.sp. Several specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Corella japonica, n.sp. About twelve specimens ; obtained also at Yokohama and
Hong Kong
Ciona savignyi, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
aspera, n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Leptoclinum japonicum, n.sp. One colony; obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Apogon lineatus, Schlegel. Obtained also in Yokohama Bay.
Hapalogenys mucronatus, Eydoux and Souleyet. Obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Trypauchen vagina, Bl. Schn. Obtained also at Amboina and Hong Kong.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Nemertean with eggs (Cephalothrix), Pagurus, large Nudibranch, small reddish fish with
hidden eyes and peculiar nose-organ (Amblyopus), and several other fishes from fishermen
or caught with trammel in their boat (three species of fishes only noted above).
Excluding Protozoa, over 300 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this place, belonging to about 90 species, of which 30 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera ; 27 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
