16
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
south-easterly. They therefore blow home on that coast, bringing from tropical regions
the warm waters of the surface over the whole of the northern portion of this sea.
On the western part of the North Atlantic the isothermal of 75° is carried to a
higher latitude than anywhere else in the ocean, owing to the prevailing southerly and
south-westerly winds, which carry thither the high temperature waters immediately to the
south. On the other hand, the isothermal of 45° is carried to a lower latitude near
Nova Scotia than anywhere else in the ocean, owing to the prevailing north-westerly
winds there in the cold months of the year, and the cold currents that later on descend
on these coasts from the Arctic regions. The isothermal of 45° is further remarkable in
that it extends over a far larger number of degrees of latitude than any other isothermal,
viz., from lat. 45° to 68° N., or twenty-three degrees of latitude.
A marked feature of the distribution of the temperature of the North Atlantic is
the crowding of the isothermals off the coast of America, and their opening out into
higher latitudes as they approach Europe and to lower latitudes as they near Africa.
Thus on the American coasts the isothermals from 45° to 75º extend over twelve
degrees of latitude, but on the eastern side of the Atlantic to forty-eight degrees. An
important point is that the highest temperature as regards latitude is not near the coast,
but in the ocean a considerable distance to westwards. The lowering of the temperature
off the north-west of Africa deserves attention, as being the direct result of the curving
round of the prevailing winds in this part of the North Atlantic anticyclone to north-
west and north, thus transferring the surface waters from higher to lower latitudes. A
similar effect is even more emphatically expressed in the isothermals of the air in this
part of the ocean (see Map 13 in the Report on Atmospheric Circulation). A similar
lowering of the temperature, from similar causes, is seen off the west coasts of all the
continents, the prevailing winds in these regions passing from higher to lower latitudes.
On the other hand, as the prevailing winds on the western sides of the oceans pass from
lower into higher latitudes, temperatures there are higher, except in the higher latitudes,
where icebergs and icefloes, polar currents, and upwelling occur.
The warm currents to the east of South Africa, and the cold currents to the
west, are well shown on Map 2, on which the results are now stated with great
accuracy of detail from the Meteorological Charts for the Ocean District adjacent to
the Cape of Good Hope, issued by the Meteorological Council.
The lowest isothermal on the map is 30° in the Arctic Regions. The isothermals
here, to the north of the British Islands, are taken from Professor Mohn's great work on
The Meteorology of the Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition, 1876–78 (Plate XVI.).
These mean annual temperatures of the Norwegian Sea and Arctic Ocean, so carefully
prepared by Mohn, are of first importance in their bearings on ocean circulation,
and the same remark may be extended to the deep-sea temperatures of the same
expedition.
