836
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
1
PHILIPPINES.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: "I found among the surface things taken while at anchor
off Samboangan, the Chirodota larva with twelve-spoked wheels. I discovered several
Nauplius-stages of Limulus, which I shall describe in detail later on. [This turned out
eventually to be a Cirriped larva]. The last stage of the Tornaria-Balanoglossus
larva, that in which the proboscis and its two eyes are developed, as figured by
Metschnikoff, was not uncommon in the water, showing that there must be a Balanoglossus
somewhere about. Larvæ of Planarians and Annelids were plentiful, and a transparent
Glycera was found swimming at the surface.
February 6 and 7, 1875.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.- The following species are recorded from the surface of the
Celebes Sea, between Samboangan and Station 213 :-
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phronimella elongata, Claus.
Brachyscelus inæquipes (Dana ?).
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Zoontocaris approximus, n.g., n.sp.
Oodeopus longispinus, n.g., n.sp.
PELAGIC HEMIPTERA (White, Zool. pt. 19).
Halobates princeps, n.sp.
germanus, n.sp.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Thysanopoda tricuspidata, M.-Edwards.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Pyrocystis, Algæ
(Trichodesmium), compound Radiolaria, swimming Actinian and larvæ, Hydroid larvæ,
small Medusæ, Diphyes, Cydippe, Pluteus, Bipinnaria asterigera, Sagitta, Tomopteris,
Alciopa, larval Annelids, larvæ of Sipunculus, Dendroceelous Planarians, Corycæus,
Saphirina, Copilia, Caprella, Phronima, Oxycephalus, Squillerichthus, Lucifer, Caridid
larvæ, Zoëæ, Megalopæ, larvæ of Acurid Mollusc (Pontolimac?), Atlanta, Pterotrachea,
Styliola, Hyalæa [ = Cavolinia), Doliolum, Leptocephalus.
Moseley writes : “A young oval Planarian had eyespots over the brain, and also a
set of small eyespots ranged along the whole anterior margin. A fragment of a Hydroid
and a Caprella were probably both from the ship's bottom.”
STATION 213.
Station 213 (Sounding 350), Samboangan to New Guinea (see Chart 31 and
Diagram 14).
February 8, 1875; lat. 5° 47' N., long. 124° 1' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 83°:0; mean for the day, 80°•7.
