6
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
on
A summary of the results is given in that paper at page 42, where it is shown
that at a depth of 2500 fathoms, or nearly 3 miles, the mean correction of all the
thermometers examined is only 0°:27 Fahr., the largest correction of any one of these
thermometers being 0°:41 Fahr.
The observations of deep-sea temperatures strictly as observed, no correction being
thus shown to be needed, are published in the Challenger Reports, together with
the same temperatures represented by curves 258 plates.
The curves
are drawn, libera manu, through the observations, which are fully detailed at
the top of each plate, allowance being thus made for such errors of observation as
10°, 5°, 1°, &c. The figures adopted in constructing the accompanying maps of deep-sea
temperature are taken directly from the curves. In dealing with the other observations
employed in this discussion, the observations as read are alone employed, any correction
for pressure on the bulbs of the thermometers being in no case allowed for. As regards
the important series of observations made by Commander Belknap, U.S.S. “Tuscarora,”
it is stated in his Report, p. 18, what corrections were applied to the thermometers for
depths of 100, 300, 500, and 700 fathoms, but no further explanation is given. An
examination, however, of the observations themselves at all depths as printed makes it
sufficiently plain that Captain Davis' correction of half a degree Fahr. for each mile
of depth had been applied throughout. Before, therefore, entering the temperature
observations of the “ Tuscarora” on the maps, they were increased by the amount by
which they had manifestly been diminished, before publication, by the application of
Captain Davis' rule. It was interesting to note that when the “ Tuscarora's ” course
was in the vicinity of the course of the Challenger, “ Egeria,” &c., the additions made to
the published readings brought them into accordance with the readings of these other ships.
As this discussion deals only with depths at which the temperature is virtually
uninfluenced by season, no depths less than 100 fathoms are examined. The
temperature maps which accompany this Report are for depths of 100 fathoms, and
then, in succession, for each additional 100 fathoms down to 1000, then for 1500, for
2200 fathoms and another for bottom temperatures. It is plain that in this discussion
no temperatures of the surface of the sea are admissible except good mean annual
temperatures of the surface, it being these and these alone that rule deep-sea
temperatures. Hence it is impossible to overestimate the value of Lieut. Baillie's map
showing the mean annual distribution of the temperature of the surface.
In order to arrive at a correct knowledge of the mean temperature of the ocean
considered as a whole at each of the depths selected, all the temperatures at each depth
were averaged, excluding the temperatures which are from so-called “closed areas.”
The mean temperature thus arrived at is entered on each map, and in drawing the
isothermal lines, all temperatures above this mean are represented by red lines, and
See Ante, No. 1, footnote, p. 3.
