802
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Station 207.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Sepia recurvirostra, Steenstrup (?). Broken shell ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger. Recorded from Eastern Archipelago.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Trachypterus repandus, Costa (?). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Halosaurus mediorostris, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the Station-book records a third Sponge and Ascidian.
Excluding Protozoa, over 50 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 22 species, of which 15 are new to science,
including representatives of 3 new genera; 9 of the new species were not obtained
elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The borders of the bivalves, the stems of some of the
Sponges, and the crabs were covered with a black substance, probably peroxide of
manganese. The crab obtained was a true Dorippe, distinguished by the large opening
into the branchiæ with its prominent borders, and the dorsal position of the last
pereiopods ; a small Peneid was distinguished by the size of the anterior appendages of
the pereiopods."
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following are recorded in the note-books from the surface
at this Station :-Diatoms, Oscillatoriaceæ, Globigerina, Orbulina, Acanthometre and
other Radiolaria, Medusæ (Ægineta) very common, small Physalids, Echinoderm larvæ,
Sagitta with eggs and sperma, Alciopa, larvæ of several Annelids, asexual Nematodes,
Calanus, Copilia, Saphirina, and other Copepods, Hyperia, Sergestes, Lucifer, larvæ
of prawns, Zoëæ, small Brachyurous crabs, small shells with velum, Atlanta, Hyalæa
Cavolinia), Styliola, Theceurybia [ = Halopsyche] gaudichaudi, Pteropod larvæ,
Cephalopod larvæ.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “Most of the Sagittæ were to-day filled with eggs
and
sperma.
In one of them was a Cestode larva, with unarmed rostellum, 3 mm. in length.”
STATION 208.
Station 208 (Sounding 344), Manila to Samboangan (see Chart 31).
January 17, 1875; lat. 11° 37' N., long. 123° 31' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 79°:8; mean for the day, 79°:7.
