922
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATIONS 236
AND 236a.
Acanthephyra brachytelsonis, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Stations 170,
171, 194, 214, 232, and 318.
Pasiphæa amplidens, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
acutifrons, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Station 311, 245 fathoms.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA (Smith, Zool. pt. 35).
Lima goliath, Sowerby. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 311, 245 fathoms.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Aphrocallistes (?), several specimens of Isis, Onuphis and another Annelid in tube
(Terebellid ?), small Scalpellum, small Coccia and another Sternoptychid.
Excluding Protozoa, over 40 specimens of invertebrates were obtained in this
trawling, belonging to about 29 species, of which 16 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera; 6 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms. -The following species are recorded from the surface in the
vicinity of this Station :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Actissa discoides, Haeckel.
Sphærozoum medusinum, Haeckel.
polygonalis, Haeckel.
Styptosphæra spumacea, Haeckel.
Drymosphæra polygonalis, Haeckel.
Cenellipsis circopora, Haeckel.
Heliosestrum liriope, Haeckel.
Spongasteriscus myelastrum, Haeckel.
Lonchostaurus bifurcus, Haeckel.
Lithoptera quadrata, Haeckel.
Ceriaspis cicatricosa, Haeckel.
Hexacolpus conifer, Haeckel.
Plectanium ovodimare, Haeckel.
Zygostephanium paradictyum, Haeckel.
Toxarium constrictum, Haeckel.
Parastephanus quadrispinus, Haeckel.
Dictyophimus brandtii, Haeckel.
Sethophormis umbrella, Haeckel.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Corocalyptra margaretha, Haeckel.
Theocampe cryptoprora, Haeckel.
Auloceros furcosus, Haeckel.
Sagoplegma pyramidophora, Haeckel.
Medusetta quadrigata, Haeckel.
Gazelletta trispathilla, Haeckel.
Castanidium bethelli, Haeckel.
Conchidium dimerella, Haeckel.
Calodendrum flabellatum, Haeckel.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Salpa cordiformis-zonaria, Quoy and
Gaimard-Pallas.
The tow-nets procured much the same things as on the previous day (Station 235.)
ANIMALS FROM
JAPAN.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been obtained
during the stay of the Challenger in the neighbourhood of Japan, in shallow water,
on shore, &c.:-
