2
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
1
phenomena the most important is an approximately correct representation of the
circulation of the atmosphere over the surface of the globe in all seasons of the year.
The only way by which this knowledge can be obtained is by the geographical
distribution of the mass of the earth's atmosphere, as shown by mean isobaric lines,
which, as is recognised, ultimately depend on the geographical distribution of the
temperature and humidity of the air. Observation abundantly shows that it is the
isobaric lines which absolutely rule the direction of the prevailing winds.
A discussion, therefore, of all available information relative to the different
atmospheric phenomena, with more special reference to the work of the Challenger,
was undertaken in 1882, and the results were published in the beginning of 1890.1
That Report gives, in addition to the results of the Challenger observations, the mean
diurnal variations of atmospheric pressure at 147 places in all parts of the globe; the
mean monthly and annual pressure at 1366 places ; a similar table of mean temperatures
at 1620 places; and the mean monthly and annual direction of the wind at 746 places.
Owing to the all-importance of the wind ou oceanic circulation, other data were
obtained and utilised in constructing the maps, which had been published by the
marine and meteorological departments of the United States, England, France, Holland,
Germany, Norway, Denmark, Italy, Mauritius, and India. A first attempt was also
made to investigate and describe the meteorology of the ocean.
Among the more important factors of ocean meteorology that bear more directly
on this discussion are the large permanent anticyclonic areas over the oceans, out of
which the winds blow in all directions towards and over all surrounding regions where
atmospheric pressure is lower. These are the regions of the oceans where calms and
light winds are of most frequent occurrence. Since this state of things necessarily
implies vast accessions of air setting towards these anticyclonic regions as upper aerial
currents, and thence slowly descending to the surface of the sea, it follows that in these
regions the air is relatively very dry; and this being so, evaporation is very great,
and the specific gravity of the surface water of the sea consequently also large in
anticyclonic regions.
An examination of the anticyclones and their relative prevailing winds on the isobaric
maps accompanying the Report on Atmospheric Circulation, already cited, indicate that
these regions may be regarded, in a very large degree, as the ORIGINS OF THE WINDS
and surface currents on the sea. It is of the greatest importance to note, in con-
nection with the specific gravity of the surface water, that the less space the winds
have traversed the ocean from their origins in the anticyclonic regions, the less is the
rainfall. And on the other hand, the greater the distance the winds have traversed the
ocean, the more copious is the rainfall.
To take examples : The isobaric lines and
winds for July show that the regions of the globe where at this time of the year the
Report on Atmospheric Circulation, based on the Observations made on board H.M.S. Challenger, and other
Meteorological Observations, by Alex. Buchan, M.A., LL.D. (Phys. Chem. Chall. Exp., pt. v., 1889).
1
