SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
811
STATION 209.
Spongicola venusta, De Haan. Many specimens (in Euplectella); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Japan.
Penæus fissurus, n.sp. Ten specimens ; obtained also at Stations 190 and 204
rectacutus, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Station 173.
ANOMURA (Henderson, Zool. pt. 69).
Ilomola orientulis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 192.
Latreillopsis bispinosa, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Latreillia valida, De Haan. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Japan.
Galathea grandirostris, Stimpson. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA (Smith, Zool. pt. 35).
Pecten vitreus (Chemnitz). For distribution see Station 204.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 38).
Leptoclinum albidum, Verrill, var. grande, nov. Several specimens; the species
obtained also at Cape Verdes and Simon's Bay.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Lepadid, Aga spongiphila parasitic in Euplectella, two specimens of Cymopolia (?),
Stenorhynchid, Ibaccus, two specimens of Patella, Gasteropod attached to Ophiurid, and
two species of Polyzoa.
1
Excluding Protozoa, over 200 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 57 species, of which 32 are new to science, including
representatives of 7 new genera; 15 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Sulm writes : “Among the parasites inhabiting Euplectella the following
were distinguished : 1, Æga spongiphila, the commonest inhabitant of the Sponge ;
2, Pulæmon sp. (?), very transparent and delicate (I succeeded in getting the Zoëæ out
of the eggs, by keeping the mother in a globe, and found them to be ordinary
Zoëæ with, however, some appendages only, as a rule, seen at a later stage);
3, a whitish Aphroditacean Annelid, an inch in length ; and 4, a small white Pecten.
The two latter are less common than the two former; all are white and some
transparent. An Ophiurid was taken with a Gasteropod attached having a likeness to a
