SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1115
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Globigerina, Hastigerina, Station 297.
Siphonophoræ, Ctenophoræ (Beroë), Sagitta, Tomopteris, Cypridina, Copepods,
Oxycephalus, Pteropods and larvæ, Fritillaria, Appendicularia, Doliolum, Salpa, &c.
A tow-net sent down to 200 fathoms contained some Challengeride and other Radiolaria,
and a tow-net at the trawl brought up some deep-sea Crustacea and Phæodaria.
AT JUAN
FERNANDEZ.
The Challenger anchored off the Fort in Cumberland Bay, Juan Fernandez, at
6.30 P.M. on November 13, and sailed at 6 P. M. on November 15 (for description of the
island see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 810-830). The following species are recorded
as having been obtained during the visit to Juan Fernandez ::
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Orchestia selkirki, n.sp. Fifty-two specimens (shore); obtained at no other locality.
ANIMALS FROM
JUAN
FERNANDEZ.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Acanthias blainvilli, Risso. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Mediterranean and southern hemisphere.
Polyprion kneri, Steindachner. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Scorpæna thomsoni, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Chilodactyla monodactylus, Carmichael. Obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Caranx georgianus, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Trigla picta, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Umbrina reedi, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Muræna porphyrea, Guichen. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Surface Organisms.— The water in the bay was phosphorescent, and the tow-net ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-N ETS.
procured a great many specimens of Ceratium (Peridinium) tripos, along with many
Radiolaria, a few Globigerinæ, Appendicularia, Salpa, &c. From the ship many large
Crustaceans, belonging to the genus Palinurus, were taken by sinking a net with bait,
and
a great many fishes were taken both from the ship and off
' Cod Point.
Station 298 (Sounding 443), Tahiti to Valparaiso (see Chart 38 and Diagram 21). Station 298.
November 17, 1875; lat. 34° 7' S., long. 73° 56' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 61°:8; mean for the day, 59°:3.
