SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1171
STATION 313.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Molgula gigantea (Cunningham). Nearly forty specimens ; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Magellan Strait
and Patagonian Bank.
Ascidia meridionalis, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained also at Station 320,
600 fathoms.
Colella pedunculata (Quoy and Gaimard). Five specimens; obtained also at
Stations 149, 151, 314, and 315.
Atopogaster gigantea, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
elongata, n.g., n.sp. Numerous specimens; obtained also at the Cape
(var. pallida).
Polyclinum incertum, n.sp. Three specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Amaroucium irregulare, n.sp. Over twelve specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
var. concinnum, nov. One specimen; obtained at no
other locality.
lævigatum, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
(?) ignotus, n.sp. Two specimens (genus doubtful); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Antarctic.
Goodsiria coccinea, Cunningham. About twenty specimens; obtained also at
Stations 314 and 315, 70 and 12 fathoms. Recorded from
Magellan Strait and Falkland Islands.
Synstyela incrustans, n.sp. Numerous specimens ; obtained also at Philippines.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pts. 6 and 57).
Raja brachyura, n.sp. Four specimens ; obtained also at Station 314, 70 fathoms.
Psammobatis rudis, Günther. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Notothenia longipes, Steindachner. Obtained also at Stations 306 and 312.
elegans, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
Thysanopsetta naresi, n.g., n.sp. Obtained at no other locality. Only species of
the genus.
Salilota australis, n.g., n.sp.
Obtained also at Station 314 and Puerto Bueno.
Only species of the
genus.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :- Many
Sertularians and many other Hydroids, Brissopsis, four specimens of Margarita,
Pleurotoma, and several specimens of Calyptræa.
Excluding Protozoa, over 400 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 82 species, of which 42 are new to science,
including representatives of 7 new genera; 26 of the new species and 1 new genus
were not obtained elsewhere.
