1458
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
salt as many regions of the present ocean, that they had a relatively high temperature
and were probably frequently laden with fine clayey matter derived from the land and
shallow reaches of the sea-bed, a condition of matters that now to some extent obtains in
the western Pacific Ocean. The great abundance of Protistan life in the open waters of
the early ocean of which we have here some evidence, produced, in all likelihood, by
death and decay a most abundant supply of food at the bottom of the ocean, especially
just beyond the mud-line. In this position, again, the abundant food supply would
bring about the most favourable conditions for the evolution of the Metazoa. Some
species would eventually be able to spread upwards and establish themselves in the
shallower portions of the sea-bed swept clear of mud by tides and currents. Even in
these early ages species with pelagic larvæ, from being able to disperse more rapidly
and to occupy all points of vantage, would ultimately be the successful competitors
in these shallow reaches of the ocean.
2
PELAGIC
In the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the present ocean we find many large
overgrown larval forms,—Plagusia, Leptocephalus, Cephalacanthus, Phyllosoma, Alima,
Erichthus, Arachnactis, &c.-derived from the shore and shallow-water Benthos. These,
having been carried by currents into the open ocean, and, not finding there the bottom
conditions favourable for their further development, have grown to an enormous size.
In some cases larvæ of this kind may have acquired the power of reproduction in their
new habitat, somewhat after the manner of the Axolotl. Again, it is not difficult to
imagine the pelagic Coelenterates to have been derived from some such form as a
Medusoid gonophore which, on being carried into pelagic waters, could not find the con-
BVÆ. ditions necessary for the development of the fixed generation. My late colleague,
Professor Moseley, used to regard the pelagic animals as the original stock from which
other marine faunas had sprung," but evidence from embryology and other departments
of research shows that there are better reasons for holding that all the highly organised
pelagic animals are descended from ancestors which lived in the shallow waters
surrounding the land, while the very ancient pelagic Protophyta and Protozoa were
probably derived at a much earlier date from the simplest forms of life that originally
appeared at the mud-line of Pre-Cambrian seas. The mass of individuals in the pelagic
fauna and flora probably greatly exceeds that of other marine faunas, still the species are
few when compared with the organisms of the shore and shallow water. Whales, seals,
pelagic Fishes, Halobates, pelagic Cephalopods, Ianthina, Scyllæa, Pteropods, Heteropods,
pelagic Crustaceans, Worms, and Cælenterates, all appear to bear distinct traces of a
I See Buchan, Report on Oceanic Circulation, Phys. Chem. Chall. Ecp., pt. viii., pp. 3, 13, 1895.
• See W. K. Brooks, The Genus Salpa, Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore, 1893, p. 123 ; also The Origin of the
Oldest Fossils and the Discovery of the Boitom of the Ocean, Journal of Geology, vol. ii. p. 455, Chicago, 1894.
3 See Agassiz, Three Cruises of the Blake, vol. i.
p.
208.
* See Brit. Ass. Report for 1884, pp. 751–753.
