SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1059
!
Station 274.
HOLOTHURIOIDEA (Théel, Zool. pt. 13).
Psycheotrephes exigua, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Benthodytes selenkiana, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Stephanoscyphus and two specimens of a small flat white Actinian adhering to the
manganese nodules, Kophobelemnon (?), Antipathes, four Holothurians of three species
(two specimens of two species only noted above).
1
1
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 12 species, of which 7 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera; 6 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
1
A specimen of Nodosaria which came up in the trawl was alive and filled with
sarcode of a brown colour, resembling that of the Phæodaria, and presented several nuclei
which coloured in carmine solution.
.
i
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—The following species of Radiolaria were observed ORGANISMS FROM
in the deposit from this Station :-
THE DEPOSIT.
1
Cenosphæra hexagonalis, Haeckel.
marginata, Haeckel.
Carposphæra melitomma, Haeckel.
Caryosphæra pentalepas, Haeckel.
Trypanosphæra dentata, Haeckel.
Solenosphæra pandora, Haeckel.
megalactis, Haeckel.
Clathrosphæra lamellosa, Haeckel.
Xanthiosphæra lapparea, Haeckel.
Xiphosphæra planeta, Haeckel.
gæa, Haeckel.
clavigera, Haeckel.
Sphærostylus clio, Haeckel.
Spongolonche compacta, Haeckel.
Staurostylus græcus, Haeckel.
Stauracontium papillosum, Haeckel.
Hexalonche octocolpa, Haeckel.
cristata, Haeckel.
Hecancistra triserrata, Haeckel.
Heracontium circumtextum, Haeckel.
Acanthosphæra tenuis, Haeckel.
Heliosphæra hexagonaria, Haeckel.
Cromyomma mucronatum, Haeckel.
Ellipsoziphus elegans, Haeckel.
Lithatractus carduelis, Haeckel.
gamoporus, Haeckel.
Stylatractus variabilis, Haeckel.
Spongurus styptirus, Haeckel.
Cyphanta hispida, Haeckel.
Cyphonium profundum, Haeckel.
Cyphinidium coronatum, Haeckel.
Panartus tetraplus, Haeckel.
quadriceps, Haeckel.
Peripanartus lævigatus, Haeckel.
cylindrus, Haeckel.
Panicium scoparium, Haeckel.
Peripanicium coronarium, Haeckel.
Ommatocampe nereis, Haeckel.
Ommatartus amphicanna, Haeckel.
Zygocampe chrysalidium, Haeckel.
Zygartus chrysalis, Haeckel.
Stylodiscus amphistylus, Haeckel.
Theodiscus trinitatus, Haeckel.
Crucidiscus cruciatus, Haeckel.
Sethodiscus lenticula, Haeckel.
Astrosestrum ephyra, Haeckel.
Heliodiscus trigonodon, Haeckel.
cingillum, Haeckel.
1
H
