852
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 217.
crabs. The crabs, a small Grapsus-like form and another larger one, inhabit the logs as
does Nautilograpsus those in the Atlantic. These various animals appear to frequent
the logs because of the concentration about them of the surface animals. Enormous
quantities of small fish were about the wood, and troops of dolphins (Coryphæna), and
sharks (Carcharias) two to four feet in length, were seen feeding in the midst of the
driftwood masses, splashing the water and showing above the surface as they caught
I found a large Ctenophor (Eucharis) and Physalia, and very small flying
fish were common, as among the gulf-weed. The wood was bored by a Pholas and
by an Aphrodita.”
their prey.
AT NEW GUINEA.
The Challenger remained at Humboldt Bay, New Guinea, on February 23 and 24, 1875
(for description of Humboldt Bay see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 681-689). The
deposit in 37 fathoms was a Blue Mud, containing 28.91 per cent, of carbonate of lime,
in which the following species of Ostracoda were observed :-
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Phlyctenophora zealandica, n.g., n.sp. Obtained also at Port Jackson and
Wellington Harbour, N.Z.
Pontocypris attenuata, Brady. Obtained also at Hong Kong.
Macrocypris orientalis, Brady (?). Obtained also at Station 187.
Bairdia amygdaloides, Brady. For distribution see Station 162.
Cythere papuensis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
dictyon, n.sp. Widely distributed (see Station 24).
scutigera, Brady. Obtained also at Stations 167, 300, and Amboina.
Cytherella semitalis, Brady. For distribution see Station 187.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in the
neighbourhood of New Guinea : --
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Leuckartia flavicornis, Claus (?).
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
darwinii, Lubbock.
Scolecithrix danæ (Lubbock).
Euchæta prestandreæ, Philippi.
Pontella plumata, Dana.
Setella gracilis, Dana.
Corycæus sp. (?).
Copilia mirabilis, Dana.
Oncæa obtusa, Dana.
Saphirina ovalis, Dana.
opalina, Dana.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phronimella elongata, Claus.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Euphausia pellucida, Dana.
Thysanopoda tricuspidata, M.-
Edwards, (juv.).
