1158
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 310.
POLYPLACOPHORA (Haddon, Zool. pt. 43).
Lepidopleurus dallii, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Scyllium canescens, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Paraliparis membranaceus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Notacanthus bonapartii, Risso. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Mediterranean.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Many large masses of Lophohelia, and calcareous Polyzoon.
Excluding Protozoa, over 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 30 species, of which 24 are new to science, including
representatives of 7 new genera ; 16 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera, were
observed in the deposit from this Station ; the only pelagic species is Globigerina
bulloides :
Biloculina ringens (Lamarck).
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina seminulum (Linné).
Reophaz difflugiformis, Brady.
pilulifera, Brady.
scorpiurus, Montfort.
Haplophragmium canariense (d'Orbigny).
scitulum, Brady.
Hormosina globulifera, Brady.
Ammodiscus gordialis (Jones and Parker).
tenuis, Brady.
Trochammina squamata, Jones and Parker.
Cyclammina cancellata, Brady.
Clavulina communis, d’Orbigny.
Bulimina pyrula, d’Orbigny.
Bolirina robusta, Brady.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
Lagena lævis (Montagu).
Nodosaria communis, d'Orbigny.
Cristellaria rotulata (Lamarck).
Sagrina dimorpha, Parker and Jones.
x Gloingerina bulloiles, d'Orbigny.
Spirillina tuberculata, Brady.
Truncatulina tenera, Brady.
Nonionina depressula (Walker and Jacob).
scapha (Fichtel and Moll).
I
1
1
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The tow-nets procured : Diatoms, many specimens of
Peridinium, many Infusoria, many small Medusæ, Annelid larvæ, Daphnids, Copepods,
Amphipods, many larval Lamellibranchs (young mussels), Membranipora larvæ,
Appendicularia.
