1442
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
SchiZOPODA OF
THE NORTHERN
AND SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERES.
SARS says: “Concerning the geographical distribution of this species (Lophogaster typicus), the
occurrence of this form in the southern hemisphere, as shown by the Challenger collection, is remarkable,
and might induce the belief that it ranges from the Norwegian Sea along the whole western coast of Europe
and Africa, or throughout the boreal, lusitanic, tropic, and antiboreal regions. It may, however, be considered
as a highly remarkable fact, that this very striking form has never been recorded either from the coasts of
England and France, or from the Mediterranean, although each of these tracts has been carefully investigated
by numerous zoologists. We may therefore entertain the assumption that this form in reality does not occur
throughout the intermediate tracts of the ocean, but is met with independently in both hemispheres in the
corresponding region. Should this be the case, we may infer that the distribution of the species must at
an earlier date have been continuous, but considerable changes afterwards occurring in the physical conditions
led to a separation of the species into two independent stocks. In the sequel we shall meet with another
still more striking example of a similar kind, in treating of the Mysidan Boreomysis scyphops, a form stated
to occur in the Arctic and Subantarctic regions only, having never yet been found in any intervening tract.
The typical species (of Boreomysis] is Boreomysis arctica, first met with in the Arctic Sea, off Greenland,
and also occurring along the coasts of Norway, where two other species, Boreomysis tridens and Boreomysis
megalops, have been also observed. Moreover, on the Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition two large species
were taken, Boreomysis nobilis and Boreomysis scyphops, the latter of which is also represented in the
Challenger collection (from the Southern Ocean). Finally, there are two additional species from the
Challenger Expedition (one from the North Pacific and one from the North Atlantic). . . . The total number
of species thus amounts to seven. All are true deep-sea forms, the animals descending to very considerable
depths, and having never been met with in shallow water. .. The geographical distribution of this form
(Boreomysis scyphops] is very remarkable, ranging, as it does, within the limits of well-nigh the same region
in both hemispheres, and not occurring in the intermediate tracts of the ocean. As it cannot be reasonably
assumed that the species has originated independently in both hemispheres, the physical condition of the
sea-bottom must at some time or other have been more uniform than at present, to have admitted of the
species spreading over a much more extensive area, whereas at a later period essential changes in the
climatological conditions must be assumed to have caused this form to withdraw successively from the equa-
torial region towards the two poles, thus dividing the species into two widely separated stocks, inhabiting
corresponding regions in both hemispheres. Another fact, too, viz., the remarkable occurrence ... of the northern
form, Lophogaster typicus, in the Southern Ocean, without its being ever met with in the intermediate tracts,
may also warrant the assumption of essential changes in the physical conditions of the sea-bed having taken
place at some former period, thus causing the occurrence of certain species to appear discontinuous." I
Sars further writes: “The development of most Schizopoda exhibits a very striking resemblance to that
of the Isopoda, the young passing within the marsupium of the female through one or more so-called pupa-
stages before being hatched. In the Euphausiidæ, however, a totally different mode of development has
been discovered, the young of these animals being hatched in a very immature condition, and not attaining,
till after an exceedingly complicated free metamorphosis, the form characteristic of the adults." 2
Sars writes: "The genus (Leucon} at present comprises, besides the two new forms described below (one
from Kerguelen and one from the North Pacific), nine species, seven of which are from the Northern Ocean,
one from the Mediterranean, and one from the Atlantic. . . The genus [Diastylis) is very abundantly
represented, especially in the Northern Ocean, no less than twenty-seven distinct species having been hitherto
recorded. The Challenger collection contains four species, one of which [from the North Atlantic) has been
formerly described, whereas the three others (two from the North Atlantic and one from Kerguelen) are now
added, increasing the number to thirty-one." 3
BEDDARD, speaking of the development of spines in Isopods, writes: “This modification of structure is
not, however, confined to the deep-sea species; it is found in quite as marked a degree in Arcturus furcatus and
Arcturus studeri and other species of Arcturus; it will be noticed, however, that these species are inhabitants
of the colder regions, and indeed it would appear that there is some connection between temperature and the
* Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. xxxvii. pp. 16, 177, 178, 182.
Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. xxxvii. p. 8.
3 Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. lv. Pp. 33, 44,
