SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
873
At 6 A. M. stopped and put trawl over, veering 2000 fathoms. At 7.40 A.M. sounded Station 223.
in 2325 fathoms ; veered trawl rope. .
At 10.30 A.M. obtained serial temperatures down
to 1500 fathoms. The carbonic acid was determined in bottom water, and amounted to
61.9 milligrammes per litre. At 12.30 P.M. commenced heaving in traw), which came up
foul at 4 P.M., containing only a few specimens and pumice-stones. Made sail and
proceeded towards the Mariana or Ladrone Islands. A boatswain bird fell on the deck
from the rigging, having probably been injured through the manipulation of the ropes,
and a noddy tern came on board ; a large flock of petrels or shearwaters seen at the
Admiralty Islands was observed near the ship.
Distance at noon from Guam Island, 464 miles ; from Elato Island, Caroline Islands,
90 miles ; from Nile Shoal, about 30 miles. Made good 70 miles. Amount of current
8 miles, direction N. 21° E.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this ANIMALS FROM
Trawl.
Station :-
CRINOIDEA (Carpenter, Zool. pt. 32).
Hyocrinus bethellianus, Wyville Thomson, n.g., n.sp. (?). One young specimen ;
obtained also at Stations 106 and 147. Only species of
the genus.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Two specimens; for distribution see Station 23.
The Station-book records also a Peneid shrimp, and small siliceous Sponges attached
to pumice-stones.
Surface Organisms. During the forenoon two tow-nets were carried away by
sharks, and a third caught in the screw; in the afternoon a few hauls were taken and
the following procured :-Pyrocystis, Peridinium (in catena), Ethmodiscus, Coscinodiscus,
and other Diatoms (Planktoniella), Globigerina, Orbulina, Radiolaria, Medusa,
Siphonophoræ, Ctenophoræ, Echinoderm larvæ, Sagitta, Aphroditacean and tubicolous
Annelids, Calanus, Copilia, Pontella, Saphirina, Hyperia, Phronimids, Euphausia,
Lucifer, Sergestes larvæ, Atlanta, Firoloida, Pneumonoderma, Styliola, Hyalæa
= Cavolinia), and other Pteropods, Appendicularia, Doliolum. A Salpa came up on
the net of the trawl, and in its stomach were Acanthometræ, Coscinodiscus, Coccospheres,
and other minute organisms. A young male shark (Carcharias lamia) was caught; it
had Caligus and another parasite on it.
