1088
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 285.
could sometimes be observed in the body of the nodules, incorporated between the
successive layers.
There were six rounded or rolled pebbles ; the largest, having in one direction a
diameter of over 3 cm., was a basaltic rock, while the others were fragments of granitic
and gneissic rocks. These pebbles are believed to have been ice-borne, this Station being
just beyond the borders of the region of floating ice in the southern hemisphere. Twelve
rounded pieces of pumice, the largest about the size of a hen's egg, were also met with ;
the outer portions were decomposed into earthy matter, and covered with layers of
manganese, which also penetrated in the form of dendrites throughout the whole of the
Numerous magnetic spherules were extracted from the deposit at this Station, as
well as from the manganese nodules. .
At 4 P.M. made sail. Several albatrosses and one or two Cape pigeons were seen.
Valparaiso distant at noon, 3324 miles. Made good 144 miles. Amount of current
10 miles, direction S. 44° E.
mass.
ANIMALS FROM
TRAWL
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this
Station :
CORALS (Moseley, Zool. pt. 7).
Deltocyathus italicus, M.-Edwards and Haime. One specimen ; for distribution see
Station 24.
1
OPHIUROIDEA (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14).
Ophioglypha minuta, n.sp. (?). Two specimens ; obtained also at Stations 146 and
158.
ANNELIDA (MʻIntosh, Zool. pt. 34).
Placostegus ornatus, Sowerby. Obtained also at Stations 244 and 253.
mörchii, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Haliporus curvirostris, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 281.
Benthesicymus brasiliensis, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 168,
173, 181, 184, and 323.
Acanthephyra longidens, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 198.
ANOMURA (Henderson, Zool. pt. 69).
Tylaspis anomala, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the genus.
