848
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 216A.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Spirula peronië, Lamarck. Dead shell (probably from the surface); for distribution
see Station 194.
Fishes (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Chauliodus sloanii, Bl. Schn. One specimen ; for distribution see Station 60.
In addition to the foregoing, the Station-book records :- Another Sponge (?),
Antipathid axis, Polyzoon, and two specimens of Discina.
Excluding Protozoa, over 20 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this Station, belonging to about 16 species, of which 10 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera; 7 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
1
There were many worm-tubes among the pumice-stones, and the trawl-net was covered
by the branching Rhizopod Rhizammina algæformis. Many of the pumice-stones
were coated with manganese, and to them were attached specimens of Stephanoscyphus.
Surface Organisms.—In addition to the Spirula shell mentioned above, the
following species are recorded from the surface at this place :-
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
( = Larval
.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Synopia schéeleana, Bovallius.
Cavolinia quadridentata (Lesueur).
globulosa (Rang).
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Hyalæa depressa, d’Orbigny (= young
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
of Cavolinia inflexa ?).
lesueuri (d'Orbigny).
Gleba sp. (?). (Larval shells).
trochiformis (d'Orbigny). Agadina stimpsoni,
Clio (Creseis) virgula (Rang).
Adams.
( ) acicula (Rang).
Gasteropods).
n.sp.
( ) balantium (Rang).
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books (February 16 to 21) :-
Noctiluca, Peridinium, Pyrocystis, Diatoms (a bunch of Diatoms was found on the tail
of a Copepod), Globigerina, Collosphæra and other Radiolaria, Physalia, small Ctenophor,
Sagitta, Sipunculid larvæ, Aphroditacean larvæ, Dendrocælous Planarian larvæ
(Eurylepta?), Copepods, Phronima, Phronimella, Oxycephalus, Squilla larvæ,
Euphausia, Amphion, Sergestes, Lucifer, Zoëæ, Nauplii, Atlanta and other Heteropods,
Pneumonoderma larvæ, Doliolum (the blood-corpuscles of which were observed to have
amaboid movements), Salpa (the stomachs of which contained Rhabdospheres,
Coccospheres, Diatoms, and small Globigerina).
