26
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
these vessels contained in the renal cavity is covered by the spongy body (Fig. S, iv)
which constitutes the excretory epithelium of the kidneys.
The two anterior renal orifices are situated on both sides of the anus (to the left
between this last and the genital opening, Fig. R, ix); they are sessile, but surrounded
by a prominent cushion.
The reno-pericardial orifice is near the external renal opening; it is found more
laterally than the latter (Fig. S, X) upon the ventral
face of the renal cavity leading into a reno-pericardial
tube (Fig. T, ii), applied to this latter, obliquely
transverse, and directed latero-posteriorly, at the
same time enlarging. By analogy with what exists
in the other Dibranchiates, we would suppose that
this tube is continuous with the viscero-pericardial
ternal renal aperture ; ii, reno.pericardial duct;
iii, aperture of the reno-pericardial duct ; iv; cavity, but in the Spirula reticulata examined that
could not be actually demonstrated, the dissection
having been already carried too far from other points of view.
Fig. T. --Transverse section of the external renal
aperture of Spirula reticulata ; x 40. i, ex-
VI. REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM.
1. Sexes. — The Challenger specimen, the “Blake” specimen and that from Pro-
fessor Giard, were females, so that of the six individuals examined up to the present
time from this point of view five were females (Blainville, Owen 1879, Challenger,
Blake,” Giard) and only one male (Owen 1880). It is then very probable that
in Spirula there is hyperpolygeny as in the other Cephalopods with non-autotomic
hectocotyle.
2. Ovary.— The ovary occupies the greater part of the right half of the viscero-
pericardial cavity (Pl. I. fig. 6 ; Pl. IV. fig. 1), and, in the Spirula reticulata examined,
it even invades in part, in front of the shell and at the back of the heart, the left half of
this cavity. It is attached at the postero-external (right) side of the stomach properly
so-called or cardiac sac (Pl. VI. fig. 2), as in the Ommatostrephidæ for example. It
rises from the cælomic wall (or
mic wall (or “ peritoneum ") by a fold, which forms for it a peduncle
and encloses the blood-vessels, upon which the ovary forms a sort of cluster (for the eggs,
see further on : laying).
3. Oviduct. The oviduct is situated to the left” and there occupies the greater part of
the ventral region of the posterior half of the body in Spirula peronië (Pl. IV. fig. 3, ov.),
as well as in Spirula reticulata (Fig. R, v). In the two specimens examined it was
1 Contrary to what Owen says (op. cit., p. 12), according to whom the ovary is to the left.
2 And not at the right, as indicated in the Traité de Zoologie of Claus.
