1184
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 318.
ANIMALS FROM
TRAWL.
DEEP-SEA MEDUSÆ (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 12).
Atolla wyvillii, n.g., n.sp. Several specimens ; obtained also at Station 157.
ISOPODA (Beddard, Zool. pt. 33).
Serolis neærd, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 320, 600 fathoms.
[Possibly this specimen is recorded in error from this Station, for no
mention is made of Serolis in any of the note-books).
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Acanthephyra sica, n.sp. One specimen ; for distribution see Station 40.
brachytelsonis, n.sp. Four specimens; for distribution see Station 170.
Hymenodora mollicutis, n.sp. One specimen ; for distribution see Station 87.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Bathylagus atlanticus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
The only other species of the genus (Bathylagus antarcticus)
was taken at Station 157.
Excluding Protozoa, about a dozen specimens of invertebrates and fishes were
obtained at this Station, belonging to 6 species, all of which are new to science,
including representatives of 2 new genera; 1 of the new species was not obtained
elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—The following species of Radiolaria were
observed in the deposit from this Station :-
Aulacantha clavata, Haeckel.
Challengeria pyramidalis, Haeckel.
Aulographis ancorata, Haeckel.
Entocannula infundibulum, Haeckel.
martagon, Haeckel.
Gorgonetta carmarina, Haeckel.
asteriscus, Haeckel.
Castanarium darwini, Haeckel.
Oroscena duncanii, Haeckel.
Circospathis novena, Haeckel.
Sagenoscena stellata, Haeckel.
Haeckeliana lamarckiana, Haeckel.
Auloscena verticillus, Haeckel.
Conchopsis carinata, Haeckel.
Aulastrum tetraceros, Haeckel.
Coloplegma atlanticum, Haeckel.
1
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface and deep
tow-nets at this Station :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Spongocore chrysalis, Haeckel.
Cyphanta hystrix, Haeckel.
Cannocapsa tubulosa, Haeckel.
Hexonaspis hexagona, Haeckel.
Tristylospyris furcata, Haeckel.
