1440
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
RESEMBLANCE
BETWEEN THE
SHALLOW-WATER
OF BRITAIN AND
.
shallow water in the extra-tropical regions of the southern hemisphere were those
about the Tristan da Cunha group. With reference to these dredgings and trawlings,
Marine Faunas Professor Wyville Thomson wrote in the Station-book at the time : “ From 150 to
100 fathoms the dredge brought up a large quantity of specimens of all groups.
TRISTAN DA CUNHA.
Altogether a mass of material much like what is found off the coast of England.
From 75 fathoms nearly the same things were got as in 60 fathoms, notably a profusion
of Alcyonarians. These shallow-water dredgings around Tristan da Cunha gave a great
amount of material, the fauna being very much of the same character as that of some-
what shallower water in the north. The species seem in many cases to be identical,
but this will require critical examination to determine.” 1
The general similarity between the animals from the dredgings and trawlings in
high southern latitudes and those from like positions in the high northern latitudes
was the subject of frequent discussion among the naturalists during the whole of
the southern cruise of the Challenger. The number of identical or nearly identical
Mollusc shells in the Challenger collections from the deposits in 400 fathoms off the
ANIMALS OF Hige Azores, and off the south-eastern coasts of Australia, was especially remarkable. Again,
the similarity, and in many cases identity, of species from high northern and high
southern latitudes is frequently pointed out by the naturalists who have written the
Zoological Memoirs in the Challenger Report. This may be illustrated by the following
extracts, dealing with distribution and development :-
NORTHERN AND
High SOUTHERN
LATITUDES.
.
FISHES OF THE
NORTHERN AND
SOUTHERN HEMI-
SPHERES.
GÜNTHER writes: “The fauna of Chili and Juan Fernandez might be described, without much exaggera-
tion, as a mixture of European and New Zealand forms; of the fishes mentioned here two being identical
with, and four representative of, European species." Lycodes “is represented in the Southern as well as
Northern Hemisphere, but it would appear from the present state of our knowledge that the Antarctic species
do not descend to so great a depth as the Arctic. Probably all of the latter will be found to reach beyond
the yertical limit of 100 fathoms. Two species only of Gymnelis are known: one (Gymnelis viridis)
from the Arctic Ocean, the other [Gymnelis picta] from the Straits of Magellan."; "The most striking
character of the fauna [of the southern temperate zone] is the reappearance of types inhabiting the
corresponding latitudes of the northern hemisphere, and not found in the intervening tropical zone. This
interruption of the continuity in the geographical distribution of shore-fishes is exemplified by species as well
as genera, for instance-Chimæra monstrosa, Galeus canis, Acanthias vulgaris, Acanthias blainvillii, Rhina
squatina, Zeus faber, Lophius piscatorius, Centriscus scolopax, Engraulis encrasicholus, Clupea sprattur,
Conger vulgaris. Instances of genera are still more numerous--C'estracion, Spinaz, Pristiophorus, Raja ;
Callanthias, Polyprion, Histioptrrus, Cantharus, Box, Girella, Pagellus, Chilodactylus, Sebustes, Aploactis,
Agonus, Lepidopus, Cyttus, Psychrolutidæ, Notacanthus ; Lycodes, Merluccius, Lotella, Phycis, Motella ;
Aulopus, Urocampus, Solenoyathus; Mycine. ... The reappearance of so specialised a genus as Lycodes
[in the Antarctic] is most remarkable." 4
HERDMAN writes: “The discovery, so far south as Kerguelen Island, of a member of this genus
[Eugyra)
, which has been hitherto found only in the northern hemisphere, is very interesting. .
In the
genus Boltenia, one species occurs in the extreme north, while the other two are from far south, the genus
being unrepresented in intermediate latitudes. . . . In the genus Styela, all the species, with the exception
I See ante, p. 399.
? Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. vi. p. 23.
3 Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. lvii. pp. 76, 81.
• Study of Fishes, pr. 281, 290, Loudon, 1880.
