982
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 254.
25.4 milligrammes per litre. At 1 P.M. commenced heaving in trawl, but at 3 P.M.
the trawl-rope carried away, the trawl with three tow-nets and a few thousand fathoms
of rope being lost. A manganese nodule was procured in the water-bottle.
At 3.20 P.M.
made sail. Albatrosses still followed the ship.
Honolulu distant at noon, 852 miles. Made good 150 miles. Amount of current
31 miles, direction S. 28° W.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
>
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this
Station :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40). SIPHONOPHORÆ (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 77).
Porpita fungia, n.sp.
Cenosphæra cristata, Haeckel.
Octodendron spirale, Haeckel. PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pts. 58 and 65).
Heliodrymus setosus, Haeckel.
Pneumonoderma pacificum, Dall.
Acanthonia quadrifolia, Haeckel.
souleyeti, n.sp.
Xiphacantha macroptera, Haeckel.
Clionopsis modesta, n.sp.
Tessaraspis hexagonalis, Haeckel.
Clio (Hyalocylix) striata (Rang).
Phatnaspis cristata, Haeckel.
(Styliola) subula (Quoy and
Plagiacantha furcata, Haeckel.
Gaimard).
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
pyramidata, Linné.
Theocampe cryptoprora, Haeckel.
cuspidata (Bosc).
Castanella wyvillei, Haeckel.
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Celodendrum bifurcum, Haeckel.
Cavolinia tridentata (Forskål).
Cymbulia sp. (?).
t
-
1
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Pyrocystis (two forms),
Peridinium (in catena), Ethmodiscus, Rhizosolenia, and Diatoms attached to Copepods,
Coccospheres and Rhabdospheres abundant on the surface, Globigerina, Orbulina,
Hastigerina, Pulvinulina menardii and Pulvinulina micheliniana, Tintinnus and other
Infusoria, Medusæ, Velella, Sagitta, Alciopa, Tomopteris, Distomum, Cypridina,
Copilia and other Copepods, Zoëæ of Lepas fascicularis, Hyperids, Euphausia with
Zoëæ and larvæ, Atlanta, Oxygyrus, Tiedemannia [ = Gleba), Appendicularia, Fritillaria,
Doliolum. A haul from over 100 fathoms brought up a few Challengerida and other
Radiolaria. There were again a good many small pieces of punice covered with mould or
Algæ, and some seeds which did not seem to have come from the ship. Several specimens
of Pyrocystis noctiluca were observed to be in process of division, two distinct
individuals being surrounded by a common chitinous membrane. Some of the specimens
of Orbulina had very thin shells, and the Globigerinæ inside, attached to the inner
surfaces of the Orbulina by long spines could be seen with great distinctness.
