1276
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
space
or dredges at the 25 stations where the recorded depths were greater than 2500 fathoms,
are enumerated in zoological sequence from the Sponges to the Fishes. Those animals
which were taken in this deepest zone and not anywhere else outside of it during the
Expedition are indicated by an asterisk. This list is followed by subsidiary lists in small
type, viz.:-- First, a list of those species taken at more than one Station within the zone
deeper than 2500 fathoms ; second, a list of those species taken in the zone below 2500
fathoms as well as in the next shallower zone between 2000 and 2500 fathoms, and
similar lists for those species common to this deepest zone (deeper than 2500 fathoms)
and the still shallower succeeding zones up to the shallowest ; third, a list showing the
new genera taken only in the zone deeper than 2500 fathoms, and the number of species
belonging to each of these genera.
The species procured by the dredge and trawl in the zone between 2000 and 2500
fathoms are treated in an exactly similar manner, and so on with each succeeding
shallower zone, but in the subsidiary lists it is unnecessary to repeat the lists of species
common to the zone under consideration and the deeper zones, as these species appear
already in the lists of animals from the deeper zones, and the pages are merely referred to.
In order to avoid the repetition of the names, and to save the large amount of
necessarily involved in publishing similar lists to show the geographical distribution of
the animals procured by the dredge and trawl during the Challenger Expedition, the
bathymetrical lists have been made subservient to that purpose by adopting the expedient
of using the letters S, T, and N, to denote the distribution in tropical and extra-tropical
areas:-S placed after the name of a species indicates that it was taken south of the tropic
of Capricorn ; T placed after the name of a species indicates that it was taken within the
tropics of Capricorn and Cancer ; N placed after the name of a species indicates that it
was taken north of the tropic of Cancer. These letters represent the geographical distri-
bution of the species irrespective of depth, and they simply point out the area or areas in
which the species was obtained by the Challenger. It must be borne in mind that all the
information in these distributional lists refers only to the collections of the Challenger
Expedition. Thus, if a previously-described species occur in the lists with an asterisk, it
must not be presumed that the species has never been observed except in that zone of
depth, but merely that the Challenger obtained the species only in that zone. Again, if
a previously-described species appear with the letters S and T, it must not be supposed
that the species has never been observed north of the northern tropic, but merely that
the Challenger obtained the species only to the south of the northern tropic. If, for
instance, a species with an asterisk has only S after it, then it was obtained by the
Challenger in that zone only, and south of the southern tropic. In considering the
percentages given in the following notes, it must be remembered that a certain number of
species found in more than one zone are therefore counted twice or oftener.
