SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1273
Murray of the Fishes, Protozoa, and all that related to the deep-sea deposits. Imme-
diately after the examination of the contents of the dredge or trawl, one of the naturalists Work of
NATURALISTS
entered the names of the species, so far as known, in a book called the “Station Book,
DURING DREDGING
with remarks as to the number of specimens and their condition. This arrangement
This arrangement and Trawling
OPERATIONS.
worked very well. During the first few months of the Expedition a few specimens may,
from insufficient arrangements, have been destroyed, but as the naturalists became more
accustomed to work on board ship, hardly a specimen from any of the deep-sea stations
was lost or misplaced. Doubtless some of the smaller forms and parasites may have
escaped observation when the trawl came in late in the evening, or when the weather did
not permit careful examination, and some delicate fishes and invertebrates from deep
water were mutilated beyond identification ; but with these exceptions, the foregoing
lists of the organisms taken in the deep-water trawlings and dredgings may be regarded
as a complete record of all the species captured, with the exception of the Protozoa. In
the early part of the cruise small samples only of the deposits were preserved, from the
belief that the quantity brought up was much greater than would be required for any
scientific purpose ; all the deposit in the trawl or dredge was, however, passed through
sieves before being thrown away, and the larger particles thus procured were preserved.
In the later years of the voyage much larger quantities of the deposits were preserved
and brought home.
At almost every place where the ship came to anchor extensive collections of marine
animals were made by trawlings and dredgings from the steam pinnace in shallow water.
These collections were made use of by the naturalists for their own study and information,
but only mere fractions of them were preserved, with the exception of collections made
on a few remote or rarely visited coasts. This accounts for the rather meagre lists SHORE AND
of shallow-water marine animals recorded at many places visited by the Expedition,
especially during the early part of the voyage. It was thought that the extensive
preservation of shallow-water marine specimens might seriously interfere with the more
important investigations of the deep sea, which were rightly regarded as the special and
proper sphere of our labours. Even on board the Challenger there was a limit to the
number of specimen-bottles, the quantity of spirit for the preservation of specimens,
and of space for storage. Still, with a little arrangement before-hand, many valuable
collections might have been dispatched direct to Great Britain without necessarily
hampering the peculiar researches for the prosecution of which the Expedition was
organised, and the national collections might in this way have been greatly enriched by
many excellent collections and new species of organisms from distant parts of the world.
The tow-nets made of bunting, fine cotton cloth, gauze or silk, were continually
dragged through the surface and sub-surface waters of the ocean, and were frequently sent
to great depths. Very many separate collections of pelagic organisms were made in this
way during a single day when the conditions were favourable, and these were at the time
SHALLOW-WATER
