4
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
1
1
1
Lieutenant Baillie, Marine Superintendent of the Meteorological Office, obligingly
re-drew for me a map, which he had prepared for Longman's New Atlas, 1889, showing
the mean annual temperature of the surface of the ocean. This map I have revised and
amplified from observations, in which mean annual values are given, or data from which
they can be calculated, published by the Meteorological Council of London, the Scottish
Meteorological Society, and the German, Norwegian, Danish and Dutch Meteorological
Institutes. The parts of the ocean thus dealt with are the Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic
from lat. 20° N. to 5° S., round the south of Greenland, round Iceland, Norwegian Sea
and Arctic Ocean, North Sea, Mediterranean, Red Sea, Persian Gulf, west of Arabian Sea,
east of Africa from Cape Guardafui and round the Cape to near Whalfisch Bay, and
south of Australia. Since this discussion deals with the temperature at depths where
the influence of season is virtually not felt, it was absolutely essential that it should start
from the mean annual temperature of the surface. It is evident that mean temperature
for a single month, or groups of months that do not represent an annual mean, would
simply mislead.
The specific gravities are those observed by the Challenger, reduced by Mr
Buchanan, and published in the Challenger Reports, together with the specific
gravities given in the publications enumerated above as the sources from which
the sea temperatures were obtained. The specific gravities given in the account
of the Cruise of the “ Novara ” (Wien, 1862–65) have also been utilised, and also
those given in the following publications of the Meteorological Council of London :
Charts of Meteorological Data for Square 3, lat. 0°-10° N., long. 20°—30° W.;
Charts of Meteorological Data for Nine Ten-Degree Squares, lat. 20° N. to 10°
S., long. 10° to 40° W.; Meteorological Charts for the Ocean District adjacent
to the Cape of Good Hope; and Twelfth Number of Meteorological Papers, published
by authority of the Board of Trade. Professor Copeland has favoured me with a
valuable unpublished series of specific gravities observed by him in the South
Atlantic, west of Cape Colony, and thence round the Cape and through the Indian
Ocean to a point a little to the south of Mauritius. When these observations of
specific gravities had been entered in their respective positions on the maps, large
sections of the ocean were found to be altogether unrepresented.
These blanks,
however, have been very largely filled up through the courtesy of the Meteorological
Council in placing at my service their rich storehouse of observations not yet published.
With these data the specific gravity of the surface of the oceans is fairly well
represented.
14. Exploration of the Faroe Channel during the summer of 1880, in H.M.'s bired ship“Knight Errant," by
Staff-Commander Tizard, R.N., and John Murray (Proc. Roy. Soc. Ellin., vol. xi. p. 63).
15. Deep-Sea Exploration in Faroe Channel by H.M.S. “Triton" in 1882, commanded by Staff-Commander Tizard,
R.N. (Admiralty Blue Book).
1 Report on the Specific Gravity of Samples of Ocean Water, observed on board H.M.S. Challenger during the
years 1873-76, by J. Y. Buchanan, M.A., F.R.S.E. (Phys. Chem. Chall. Exp., pt. ii., 1883).
