SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
799
STATION 206.
Saphirina metallina, Dana.
opalina, Dana.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Calanus gracilis, Dana.
Eucalanus attenuatus (Dana).
setiger, n.sp.
Rhincalanus cornutus, Dana.
gigas, n.sp.
Undina darwinii, Lubbock.
Scolecithrix dana (Lubbock).
Euchæta prestandreæ, Philippi.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phronimella elongata, Claus.
Hyperia luzoni, n.sp.
Sympronoë parva (Claus).
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Stylocheiron suhmii, n.g., n.sp.
hessei, n.sp.
Candace pectinata, Brady.
truncata, Dana.
Ætidius armatus, n.g., n.sp.
Temora dubia (Lubbock).
Centropages violaceus (Claus).
Oithona challengerü, n.sp.
Corycæus varius, Dana.
venustus, Dana.
Copilia mirabilis, Dana.
Oncæa obtusa (Dana).
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Sergestes intermedius, n.sp.
Lucifer reynaudii, M.-Edwards.
Caricyphus turgidus, n.g., n.sp.
Anebocaris quadroculus, n.g., n.sp.
LARVAL GASTEROPODA (see Pelseneer, Zool.
pt. 65).
Agadina stimpsoni, Adams.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books (January 8 and 9):-
Oscillatoriaceæ, Pyrocystis, Diatoms, Peridinium tripos and another species (twenty-
seven counted in one chain), Globigerina, Orbulina, Spharoidina, Pullenia, Pulvinulina,
Acanthometræ and other Radiolaria, Medusæ and larvæ, Diphyes, Velella, Chirodota
and other Echinoderm larvæ, Sagitta, Alciopa, tubicolous and Aphroditacean Annelid
larvæ, Cypridina, Caprella, Anchylomera thyropus, Euphausia, many small Crustacea,
Atlanta, Cymbulia larvæ, Pteropods, Cranchia, Appendicularia, Salpa (two species).
In the stomachs of the Salpa were Diatoms, Coccospheres, Rhabdospheres (two
varieties), and Rhabdoliths. Porpoises, flying-fish, a shark, and a white and blue
snake were seen.
The Challenger remained at Manila, on the second visit, from 4 P.M. on January 11 At Manila.
till 11 P.M. on January 14, 1875.
Surface Organisms. A short haul of the tow-net was taken just outside Manila ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-Ners.
Harbour and yielded the usual oceanic things, including Pilidium and a number of fish
eggs. Inside the harbour the material from the tow-net was of the same character as
