SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1121
VALPARAISO.
POLYPLACOPHORA (Haddon, Zool. pt. 43).
Chiton murrayi, n.sp. (Shore); obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Haplodactylus punctatus, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Thyrsites atun, Euphrasen. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Trachurus trachurus, Linné. Obtained also at Japan.
Latilus jugularis, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Porichthys porosus, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Clinus microcirrhis, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Atherinichthys brevianalis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Genypterus chilensis, Guich. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Merluccius gayi, Guich. Obtained also in Messier Channel.
Clupea sagax, Jen. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Ophichthys dicellurus, Rich. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Bdellostoma polytrema, Girard. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
In the foregoing list 25 species are enumerated, of which 2 are new to science, and
were not obtained elsewhere.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in the ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
vicinity of Valparaiso :
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Undina darwinii, Lubbock.
Calanus propinquus, n.sp.
Drepanopus furcatus, n.g., n.sp.
gracilis, Dana.
Corycæus pellucidus, Dana.
Eucalanus attenuatus (Dana).
Oncæa obtusa, Dana.
The tow-nets on December 11 and 12 gave large quantities of small blue Salpæ,
along with Diatoms, Globigerina, Orbulina, Acanthometræ, Infusoria, &c. Whales and
porpoises were seen ; two whales were observed to cross the mouth of Valparaiso Harbour
in company, the smaller one of which came to the surface at intervals of about two
hundred yards and rose right out of the water, sometimes exposing fully two-thirds of its
body, when it gave a half turn and fell usually on its back or side, making a tremendous
splash; this it did about half a dozen times, mostly in the same manner.
Station 299 (Sounding 444), Valparaiso to Gulf of Peñas (see Chart 40 and Station 299.
Diagram 21).
December 14, 1875; lat. 33° 31' S., long. 74° 43' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 63°-8; mean for the day, 60°.8.
