1444
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
I am
even
surface of the ocean. It appears scarcely probable that the shore fauna of two regions so far separated
from each other as the Arctic and Antarctic Seas has any direct exchange of forms at the present epoch,
so as to allow the same species, in its larval or adult state, to pass from one pole to the opposite without
settling at interjacent regions. In brief, I do not believe that at the present epoch the Arctic shallow-
water fauna can directly originate from the Antarctic, or vice versa. On the other hand, it is a fact that
the two faunæ in question resemble each other very closely, and, with regard to the Holothurids, that
several forms occur in the Arctic Sea which are most closely allied to those in the Antarctic.
inclined to suppose that the progenitors of these Holothurids have had a much wider distribution during
a past period, that altered physical conditions, a keener struggle for existence, &c., under the tropic and
the temperate zones have effected their extinction, or their migration towards the polar seas, or
produced changes in their organisation and general appearance so marked, that their descendants which
still remain in the tropical zones present themselves as species distinct from the original, and finally,
that the polar seas, with their more uniform physical conditions, allowed them and their descendants to
live there and to develop slowly but continuously after almost the same plan. The genus Psolus offers
an instructive example of forms which are distributed over all seas from the Arctic to the Antarctic, and
which are so very little differentiated that we scarcely acknowledge them as distinct species. Thus the
northern species, Psolus squamatus and Psolus fabricii, pass imperceptibly into Psolus operculatus, Psolus
complanatus, and several other tropical or subtropical fornis, which in their turn are replaced towards the
Antarctic regions by Psolus antarcticus and Psolus ephippifer, &c. But it must be observed that all
these forms of Psolus, though they apparently present great similarities, are nevertheless distinguishable,
though the differences may or may not be of specific value. It appears pretty evident that they are all
descendants from the same ancestors, which may have had their origin in the polar seas or in the tropic
or subtropic oceans, and that they, in their wide dispersion, have sustained very well the influence of altered
and very various physical conditions in different regions of the world. But, of course, different physical con-
ditions and an altered mode of life have caused some small deviations in internal and external organisation.” 1
AGASSIZ writes: “I am unable to distinguish the specimens of this species (Echinocardium flavescens)
collected at the Cape of Good Hope from the northern ones. There seems to be a number of northern
species of Spatangoids which extend to the Cape; among them are to be mentioned also Brissopsis lyrifera,
Spatangus raschi, and Schizaster fragilis," 9
SLADEN writes: “So far as at present known this genus (Stichaster) appears to be confined to the temperate
and frigid zones; and most of the species are probably limited bathymetrically to the Littoral zone, only two
occurring in the Continental zone and one in the Abyssal zone. Lophaster was hitherto known only from
the North-Atlantic area. The Challenger obtained examples of a form which I consider referable to the
genus from the South Pacific, thus adding another example to the remarkable list of representative forms
found in the temperate and sub-frigid zones of the Northern and Southern hemispheres respectively. . . . For
a long time the genus Cribrella was thought to be represented by a single species only, and to be confined to
the northern portion of the Atlantic. Within the last twenty years a number of other species have been
discovered, and the genus is found to have a wide area of distribution in the Southern as well as in the
Northern temperate and sub-frigid zones. In the higher latitudes north of the Equator Cribrella is the only
representative of the family, but in its approach towards the southern pole it is accompanied by the allied
genus Perknaster. Its bathymetrical range is greater than that of any other genus of Echinasteridæ, it being
the only representative of the family in the Abyssal zone . . . Since the discovery of this genus
(Pedicellaster) in the North Atlantic area a number of forms have been referred to it, which indicate a wide
range of distribution. Although I am inclined to think that the whole of the species now ranked as
Pedicellaster may not ultimately be retained in the genus, the occurrence of representative forms in the
higher latitudes of the Northern and Southern hemispheres is fully established.” 3
CARPENTER writes: "Closely allied to the North Atlantic species (of Comatulæ] are those occurring at
Kerguelen and Heard Island, together with a couple of forms inhabiting the Strait of Magellan. This
i Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. xxxix. pp. 259, 260.
? Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. ix. p. 175.
· Zool. Chall. Exp., pt. li. pp. 430, 458, 459, 540, 557.
ASTEROIDEA OF
THE NORTHERN
AND SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERES.
