834
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
PHILIPPJNES.
Acanthurus hepatus, Linné. (Samboangan); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Platycephalus sp. (?), young. (Straits near Zebu, 18 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 203.
.
Gobius echinocephalus, Rüpp. (Zebu); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Ophiocephalus vagus,
phalus vagus, Peters. (Manila); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Duymaria flagellifera, C.V. (Samboangan); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Rhomboidichthys pavo, Blecker. (Malanipa); ol*ained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
spilurus, n.sp. (Straits of Zebu, 18 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 188.
Barbus maculatus, C.V., var. (Pasananca); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Rusbora philippina, n.sp. (Pasananca, river); obtained at no other locality.
Muræna richardsoni, Bleeker. (Zebu reefs and Samboangan); obtained also at Tahiti.
nebulosa, Ahl. (Zebu reefs); obtained also at Tahiti.
sp. (?), young. (Zebu reefs).
Balistes verrucosus, Bl. Schn. (Zebu reefs); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Monacanthus pardalis, Rüpp. (Zebu reefs); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Chilomycterus orbicularis, Bl. (Straits near Zebu, 18 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Branchiostoma belcheri, Gray. (Samboangan); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
In the foregoing list 215 species are enumerated, of which 57 are new to science,
including representatives of 8 new genera; 43 of the new species and 2 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports
from the surface in the vicinity of the Philippines :-
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Cypridina formosa, Dana (?).
Philomedes gibbosa (Dana).
Eucalanus setiger, n.sp.
Rhincalanus cornutus, Dana.
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
darwiniz, Lubbock.
Scolecithrix dana (Lubbock).
Euchæta prestandrea, Philippi.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Eucalanus attenuatus, Dana.
