1130
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
!
STATION 300.
PYCNOGONIDA (Hoek, Zool. pt. 10).
Colossendeis gigas, n.sp. Several specimens ; obtained also at Stations 146 and 147.
leptorhynchus, n.sp. Several specimens ; obtained also at Stations 146,
147, and 310.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA (Smith, Zool. pt. 35).
Arca (Barbatia) corpulenta, n.sp.
Obtained also at Stations 184, 194, 198, 216,
and 271.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Discina atlantica, King. For distribution see Station 186.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus fernandezianus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Chlorophthalmus gracilis, n.sp. Three specimens ; obtained also at Stations 168
and 335.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Fragments of Farrea facunda (?), Stephanoscyphus, many Actinians of four or five
different species (only three species given above), many specimens of a compound
Actinian on Margarita shells inhabited by Pagurids, several Medusæ (one 4.1 inches in
diameter), Pennatulid (with short conical base and a single pair of enormously large
laterally-placed polyps), fragments of arms of Brisinga, several specimens of Ophiolepis,
two Aphroditaceans, dead shells of Margarita (?) with Pagurids, and single arm of a
Cephalopod. The stomachs of several of the shrimps were examined, and contained
half-digested fragments of red-coloured Crustaceans, as well as fragments of Globigerinæ
and mineral particles, all of which seemed to indicate that these animals fed on the bottom.
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 200 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 52 species, of which 34 are new to science, including
representatives of 10 new genera; 10 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
The following species of Foraminifera and Radiolaria were observed in the deposit
from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up about
83 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x.
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Biloculina sphæra, d'Orbigny.
var, murthyna, Schwager. Spiroloculina tenuis (Czjzek).
» serrata, Brady.
Miliolina seminulum (Linne).
ringens (Lamarck).
tricarinata (d'Orbigny).
99
