SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1195
Voluta (Zidona) angulata, Swainson. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality Station 321.
by the Challenger. Recorded from east coast of South America.
Pleurotoma (Surcula) oxytropis, Sowerby, var. albicarinata, Sowerby. Obtained at
no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Panama
and Mexico.
NUDIBRANCHIATA (Bergh, Zool. pt. 26).
Marionia occidentalis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Loligo brasiliensis, Blainville. Many specimens ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Brazil, Antilles, and Cuba.
Fishes (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Raja platana, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
microps, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
Ancylodon atricauda, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Otolithus guatucupa, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Micropogon ornatus, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
undulatus, Linné. (Monte Video); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Læmonema longifilis, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
Aphoristia ornata, Lac. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Arius commersoni, Lac. (Monte Video); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Engraulis olida, Günther. "Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :- Many
Annelids in tubes of various forms, and Dentalium.
Excluding Protozoa, over 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 29 species, of which 9 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera; 8 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
SURFACE-VETS
Surface Organisms. The following are recorded in the note-books from the surface ORGANISMS FROM
at this Station :-Peridinium, small Acanthometræ, Medusæ, Ctenophoræ (Beroë),
Sagitta, Annelid larvæ, Copepods, Cirriped larvæ, Zoëæ, Appendicularia, and larval
fishes. The water was of a greenish colour.
