948
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 241.
GASTEROPODA.
Trochus (Bembix) abyssorum, Smith, n.sp. [See Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1891, p. 438].
POLYPLACOPHORA (Haddon, Zool. pt. 43).
Leptochiton benthus, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
POLYZOA (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Farciminaria pacifica, n.sp.
One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Culeolus murrayi, n.g., n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
willemoesi, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Bathyoncus discoideus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
1
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Several specimens of Stephanoscyphus attached to pumice-stones, fragments of Pourtalesia,
worm-tube, microscopical Isopod (Arcturus ?), fragment of an Isopod (probably belonging
to a long Munopsid), and a small bivalve.
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 100 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 35 species, of which 27 are new to science, including
representatives of 12 new genera; 19 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: "Among the specimens obtained were Aphroditaceans with
long setæ of brilliant colours, which I think were previously obtained in deep water, and
a fine Clymene with the head entire but with broken tail. Two large specimens of a
Sipunculid, having no papillä on the pharynx but on the posterior part of the body,
which tapers towards the extremity, apparently belong to Keferstein's genus
Phascolosoma. There were also a small Isopod, probably an Arcturus, and a Gammarid,
one inch in length, transparent and with red eyes, which came up alive probably from
the surface."
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
The following species of Foraminifera, Radiolaria, and Diatoms were observed in the
deposit from this Station. The sounding-tube indicated two layers in this deposit, the
lower one being lighter in colour and containing more calcareous shells ; the soft mud
from the tow-nets attached to the trawl was carefully sifted, and was found to contain
large numbers of arenaceous Foraminifera, Biloculina, Textularia, and Truncatulina
(two or three of the Biloculinæ contained sarcode, which was of a yellowish colour, the
nucleus colouring readily with carmine):-
