REPORT ON SPIRULA.
3
deposited in the Sydney Museum, and consequently could not be made the subject of
anatomical research.
As to the complete Spirula taken by the “ Blake" in the West Indian Seas?
(represented in Pl. II. figs. 1, 2), it is, at the present moment, lost, without having
been dissected. Therefore the capture, during the voyage of the Challenger, of an
entire specimen of Spirula, which was entrusted to Professor Huxley, has been considered
one of the happy zoological results of this Expedition.
From the above enumeration it appears that up to the present time only five complete
individuals of Spirula have been under observation (not one of which was, however, taken
alive), the two specimens (male and female) studied by Owen, that belonging to the Sydney
Museum, and the two others which were collected by the Challenger and the “ Blake.”
In some public and private collections (notably in London) there are more or less
important fragments of Spirula not mentioned in literature, but, like the specimen in
the Sydney Museum, they cannot be made the subjects of scientific investigation.
However, two individuals—unfortunately also incomplete—were in the hands of
former captain of the navy at Nantes, who, still more strongly than the owner of the
Spirula studied by Owen in 1879, refused to trust them to a Zoologist. But Professor
Giard, who kept watch over these specimens, was able to acquire them on the death of their
possessor ; thanks to him these Spirulæ did not become the prey of a public collection.
He has been so good as to entrust them to me and to permit me to dissect the larger and
more complete of the two; upon this material my personal observations have been based.
Under these circumstances I have undertaken to prepare the Report upon the
specimen of Spirula taken by the Challenger Expedition. Zoologists will join with
me in regretting that this publication has not been made by Professor Huxley himself;
but I shall be excused for supplying his place here, when it is known that for years past
he had formally renounced the idea of publishing the figures already prepared, and thus
these could not have been published without the intervention of a collaborator.
Professor Huxley has been good enough to furnish me with various explanations
relative to the figures, and, with the aid of my own observations, I am able to present an
anatomical description of Spirula, giving sufficiently precise details of the majority of
the points of its organisation, in spite of certain deficiencies due to the rarity of the
material and its state of preservation.
P. P.
Angas, On the marine molluscan Fauna of the Province of South Australia, with a list of all the species
known up to the present time, &c. (Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1865, p. 157).
Agassiz, On the dredging operations carried on from December 1878 to March 10, 1879, by the U.S.
Coast Survey steamer “Blake" (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zoöl., vol. v., 1879, p. 298); Agassiz, Three Cruises of the
U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer “Blake” (ibid., vol. xv., 1888, p. 61).
3 These specimens had been collected in 1861, but their locality is uncertain. Professor Giard supposes
that they had been taken in the Atlantic, in the neighbourhood of the Sargasso Sea (Giard, A propos de l’Animal
de la Spirule, Comptes rendus Soc. Biol. Paris, sér. 9, t. v., 1893, p. 886).
1
2
