994
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 261.
Several brilliant meteors were observed between midnight and 4 A.M.
At 7.30 A.M.
shortened and furled sails, and proceeded under steam. At 9 A.M. sounded in
2050 fathoms. No sample of the bottom was brought up in the sounding-tube, but a
trace of reddish mud adhered to the outside of the tube. Took serial temperatures down
to 1500 fathoms. At 12.30 P.M. completed temperature observations, and proceeded
under steam against a heavy sea and strong easterly breeze.
Point Upoloa distant at noon, 79 miles. Made good 68 miles. Amount of current
14 miles, direction S. 82° W.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.---The following are recorded in the note-books from the surface
and down to a depth of 20 fathoms :-Ceratium (Peridinium) tripos (in catena),
Pyrocystis (two forms), Ethmodiscus, Coscinodiscus, and other Diatoms, Oscillatoriaceæ,
Globigerina, Orbulina, Hastigerina, Pulvinulina, Acanthometræ and other Radiolaria
abundant, Medusæ, Siphonophoræ, Echinoderm larvæ, Sagitta, Annelid larvæ, Saphirina,
Copilia, Setella, Hyperids, Euphausia, Lucifer, larval Lamellibranchs and Gasteropods,
Echinospira, Atlanta, Pterotrachea, Pteropods and larvæ, Appendicularia, Doliolum.
At Hawaii.
The Challenger anchored in Hilo Bay, Hawaii, at 7 A.M. on August 14, remaining
there till 2 P.M. on August 19, when she proceeded on her voyage towards Tahiti.
ANIMALS FROM
SANDWICH
Islands.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports as baving been obtained
during the stay of the Challenger at the Sandwich Islauds in shallow water and on shore ;
the deposit off the reefs at Honolulu in 20 to 40 fatuoms was a Coral Sand containing
88:64 per cent. of carbonate of lime, and the deposits in Honolulu Harbour, 4} fathoms,
and in Hilo Bay, 6 fathoms, were Volcanic Muds containing respectively 10 and 5 per
cent. of carbonate of lime (for description of the islands see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i.
pp. 759-769) :-
KERATOSA (Poléjaeff, Zool. pt. 31).
Coscinoderma denticulatum, n.sp. One specimen (Honolulu reefs, 40 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality.
MONAXONIDA (Ridley and Dendy, Zool. pt. 59).
Esperiopsis anomala, n.sp. Two specimens (Honolulu, 16 to 20 fathoms); obtained
at no other locality.
REEF CORALS (Quelch, Zool. pt. 46).
Pocillopora cespitosa, Dana. (Honolulu reefs, 1 to 2 fathoms); obtained also at Tahiti.
ligulata, Dana. Two specimens (Honolulu); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
