REPORT ON SPIRULA,
13
support
median sagittal plane, but it is necessary to notice that this rolling-up is ventral or
endogastric.”? The greater part of the shell is covered by the mantle, except
at the two orifices indicated above. In Spirula reticulata (Fig. J) the shell extends
further forward, under the integuments, than in Spirula peronië (Pl. III.), the three
last septa being hidden.
The shell is entirely covered by a periostracum continuous over the whole surface.
The external face of the shell is not smooth, as in the majority of internal shells, but
irregularly reticulated (Fig. K) in Spirula peroni, Spirula reticulata, and in all the dry
shells I have been able to examine (in the mesh of this reticulum is another slighter
reticulation formed by a fine broken line). On the last whorls this reticulation is not
recognisable except upon a little more than the half of the convex face. On the concave
face, especially in the first portions of the spire (Pl. II. fig. 7), there is a median external
band of thickening.
The septa have a curved surface, with the convexity directed towards the summit of
the spire (Pl. II. figs. 5, 6). Their structure shows that they are attached to the
internal face of the shell by a thin margin directed forwards. They are therefore distinct
formations, but it is scarcely probable that they are much more recent than the portions
of the shell to which they are immediately adjacent, for in the specimen of Spirula
reticulata studied, the last chamber was, so to speak, without depth (see Fig. J, vi); the
septum was then formed near the free margin of the shell. At the level of the first
septum a constriction is observed (Pl. II. fig. 7), less and less marked further on,
which leads one to suppose that during the first stages of its existence the successive
openings of the shell were somewhat narrowed.
The initial chamber is spherical with a larger diameter than those which immediately
follow.? This “ apical chamber" is the true primitive embryonic shell; it follows
from its form that the young Spirula had (as is likewise observed in the earliest stages
of Dibranchiates) a spheroidal visceral mass (episoma) with a complete external shell (sce
Fig. D). The form and the relations of the shell to the mantle must only have been
changed later on, with growth, after the manner indicated by the figures D to F above.
The siphuncle is situated on the concave side (“ ventral ” for the later chambers) of the
shell, and attached to the wall of that side (Pl. II. fig. 7).
The various segments
(portions comprised between two successive septa), especially in the last whorls, are
inflated in the half turned towards the opening (Pl. II. fig. 5; Pl. V. fig. 1). Each
segment is directly continuous with the septum which is “ anterior” to it (that is to
say, formed after it) or situated nearer the opening (Pl. II. fig. 5). The septa do
122
mi
i The other Molluscs with rolled-up univalve shells present, when they have not undergone torsion, a
dorsal or "exogastric ” rolling up, e.g., adult Nautilus, embryonic Patella and Fissurella.
2 Certain authors call it "ovisac”; it exists not only in other Dibranchiates (Belemnitidæ, &c.), but also
in the Ammonites.
JU
