SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
995
SANDWICH
ISLANDS.
Pocillopora plicata, Dana. Two specimens and fragments (Honolulu, reefs and
1 to 2-fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
nobilis, Verrill. Two specimens and fragments (Honolulu reefs,
10. to 40 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
verrucosa (Ellis and Solander). One specimen and fragments (Honolulu,
reefs and 1 to 2 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Stephanaria stellata, Verrill. One specimen (Honolulu); obtained also at Fiji.
Montipora verrucosa (Lamarck). A few specimens (Honolulu, reefs and 1 to
2 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
capitata (Dana). A few specimens (Honolulu, reefs and 1 to
40 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Porites bulbosa, n.sp. One specimen (Honolulu reefs, 1 to 2 fathoms); obtained
at no other locality.
compressa, Dana. One specimen (Honolulu); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
lichen, Dana. One specimen and fragments (Honolulu, reefs and i to
40 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
tenuis, Verrill. (Honolulu, 1 to 2 fathoms); obtained also at New Hebrides.
HYDROIDA (Allman, Zool. pt. 70).
Campanularia retroflexa, n.sp. One specimen (Honolulu, 20 to 40 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality.
Cryptolaria pulchella, n.sp. Several specimens (Honolulu, 20 to 40 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality.
OPHIROIDEA (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14).
Ophionereis porrecta, Lyman. (Honolulu reefs); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Ophiocoma erinaceus, Müller and Troschel. (Honolulu reefs); obtained also at
Philippines.
ECHINOIDEA (Agassiz, Zool. pt. 9).
Phyllacanthus gigantea, Agassiz. (Honolulu reefs) ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Echinothrix turcarum (Schynv.). (Honolulu); obtained also at Fiji.
Astropyga pulvinata (Lamarck). (Honolulu, 18 fathoms); obtained also at
Stations 188 and 190.
Echinometra lucunter (Leske). (Honolulu); for distribution see Tongatabu.
Toxopneustes pileolus (Lamarck). (Honolulu); obtained also at Philippines.
