902
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 232.
Synaphobranchus brevidorsalis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 218.
Myxine australis (Jenyns). Six specimens ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Magellan Strait.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Hyalonema sieboldiï and another species (only one species noted above), Antipathes,
several Lepadids parasitic on Macrocheira, small Amphipod, many specimens of a species
of Pycnogonum.
Excluding Protozoa, over 300 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 116 species, of which 84 are new to science,
including representatives of 16 new genera; 57 of the new species and 5 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ Hyalonema sieboldii is, according to our interpreter,
called by the Japanese “ umi-wata.” Martens gives its literary history and what he saw
of it in Japan, but he did not know where the fishermen got the specimens, nor that
Beryx, Macrurus, Macrocheira, &c., occur along with Hyalonema. An important
result of our dredgings to-day is to have found out where these animals, interesting in
many ways, live, and which of them live together, the more so as they are associated
with members of the universal deep-sea fauna. In one of the Sponges I found small
bodies containing what appeared to be a granulated embryo. The Cælenterata and
Echinoderms were represented by numerous large and fine specimens, including
Pourtalesia—a decidedly deep-sea form. There were several Annelids (Aphrodita,
Clymene, &c.), some with tubes, the most interesting being an Ophelia. Lepadids
were found in different places, most of them on the back of the big crab. Another deep-
sea genus, Munnopsis, was represented by a very interesting specimen with enormously
long pereiopods, apparently a different species from that taken in the Antarctic. A small
Amphipod seemed to be peculiar to the place, and there was a Schizopod with large
globular eyes and loose carapace. The shrimps included a spiny and very solid species,
previously taken several times in the deep sea, and several other species which almost
invariably turn up in deep-water dredgings. Two middle-aged males of Macrocheira
kümpferi were taken ; the Japanese name is “tenanga kani,” and the animal has
probably been long known to the Japanese. The fishes were so far interesting as they
included species of Macrurus, Halosaurus, and Scopelids, belonging to the great deep-
sea fauna, and Beryx—a genus peculiar to the Hyalonema-ground of Setubal.”
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
The following species of Foraminifera and Diatoms were observed in the deposit from
this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
