8
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
The surface of the little visceral sac (the mantle consequently) is reflected above the
opening of the shell, passes into the wall of the “ episoma” closely attached to it
(separated by a space in Pl. V. fig. 1), and evidently secreting (upon the median line) the
“ band of thickening” (Pl. II. fig. 7, b). The mantle thus forms a shell cavity, closed
on all sides except at two opposite points, the dorsal and ventral openings of the shell,
by which the portions of the last whorl of the shell make a free projection outside.
These shell openings, in short, form an absolutely natural disposition, although in
the Challenger specimen, where the integuments of this region were considerably altered,
the margins of the openings appeared to be fixed and to have thus sent short
irregularly-cut prolongations over the shell (Pl. I.
figs. 1, 3); in Spirula australis (Pl. II. figs. 1, 2),
and in Spirula reticulata (Fig. C in the text), this
margin is perfectly complete and uniform, and there
is no portion of the integument, however thin this
may be, which passes over the shell, contrary to the
opinion of Steenstrup' and Owen, according to whom
the periostracum (shell epidermis) was continuous with
the epithelium of the margin of the pallial openings.?
As one might expect, this last assertion is absolutely
incorrect. This periostracum is continuous under the
mantle over the whole surface of the internal portions
of the shell, and it is in no way a cellular tissue.
In front and upon the sides, the wall of the shell
sac is formed by the thin “peritoneal” membrane,
which constitutes the external envelope of the viscero-
pericardial cavity (completely separated from the
shell sac) ; posteriorly it is formed by the terminal
Fig. C.-Spirula reticulata, with the pallial cavity
laid open, ventral view.x 4. i, ventro-lateral disk. Internally the shell sac is limited by the little
accessory nidamental gland; iv, nidamental gland; mantle, properly so-called (see above), and by its
vii, external ventral part of the shell ; ix
, ovi continuation, the siphuncle (Pl. V. fig. 1, sphm.),
duct; x, retractor muscle of the infundibulum ;
extending as far as the first chamber.
Upon the wall of the shell sac are inserted laterally : in front, the retractor muscles of
the branchiæ (which on parting from the branchia are at first transverse, then directed
posteriorly); behind, the muscular bundles of the fins.
b. Terminal Disk.—The terminal disk is fleshy and covers the most aboral parts of
the shell with a thick layer of tissue limited all round by a superficial furrow more or less
Von
VII
VI
xi, dorsal projection of the mantle edge.
1 Steenstrup, op. cit., p. 227 : “Shell distinctly covered dorsally and ventrally, where the skin grew
thin above it."
Owen, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 5, vol. iii. p. 3.
2
