REPORT ON SPIRULA.
7
the
the wari
the antes
at in L.
Lite katerih
the rea
Pi. Tiberi
a projects
of the arms
tire team
smu.
FIG. A.-Posterior part of
the right side of the
culata, ventral view;
x 10. i, reticulation
of the mantle; ii, ter-
minal disk; iii, shell.
7 reticula
Later on.
ee actant
mantle that these spaces have the limits well marked. In Spirula
In Spirula reticulata, the
reticulation is also more definite in this region as well as near the opening of the shell,
where the polygons are more irregular (Fig. A in the text), whilst the projections of the
reticulum vanish insensibly on the edges of these openings.
From without inwards the mantle presents (besides the epithelium and the layer of
chromatophores): first, a layer of connective tissue, dense and glassy
superficially, and looser below ; second, a thin layer of longitudinal
muscular fibres ; third, a thick layer with circular muscular fibres,
traversed by radiating muscular bundles (Pl. VI. fig. 14); fourth,
another thin layer of longitudinal muscular fibres; and fifth, the
subcutaneous connective tissue of the internal face.
At the aboral part the form and the aspect of the mantle are
modified by the presence of the shell, elsewhere almost entirely
covered; there is on both the dorsal and ventral faces only one
longitudinal opening, in the form of an elongated ellipsoid, limited mantle in Spirula reti.
posteriorly by the “ terminal disk.” By these openings (the dorsal
is the larger) the last whorl of the shell makes a slight prominence
(Pl. I. fig. 1, sh.). The external portions of the mantle are secondarily-acquired
formations, which are almost totally wanting in Nautilus and most Gastropods. The
mantle, properly so-called, is the little convex part of the wall of the shell cavity,
that is to say, the envelope of the little visceral sac lodged in the terminal chamber of
the shell (Pl. III. PP.); it is that envelope which is the true secreting surface of the shell.
This little visceral sac corresponds to the visceral hernia of
Nautilus and of the Gastropods, but does not include more, however,
than the posterior half of the lobes of the liver (Pl. III.); it is
continued backwards by the membranous siphuncle (Pl. V. fig. 1,
sphm.) piercing all the septa of the shell, through the siphonal tubes
of the shell (sph.) secreted by it.
The proximal portion (quite anterior) of the siphuncle is much
enlarged in Spirula reticulata (Fig. B, iv). At the level of the
septum the siphuncle does not present any sensible constriction. The
portion enclosed in the last chamber but one (consequently in the
last segment of the shell-siphuncle) was surrounded, in the Spirula
reticulata studied, by a thick muff of a hard substance, recalling by
its aspect and consistency the ligament of certain Lamellibranchs; this muff hermetically
filled the space between the pallial siphuncle and the wall of the shell-siphuncle (fig. B, i).
Les
, The
ised on
res? I:
where the
be mapa
. Il fins
r!
ie sich
Fig. B.-Anterior part of
the siphuncle of Spi-
rula reticulata, left
hand side view;magni.
fied. i, muff of the last
segment of the ment-
branous siphuncle ;
ii, membranous si-
phuncle ; iii, shell-
siphuncle ; iv, anterior
widening of the si-
phuncle ; v, mantle.
ar les
sephine
"
1 The Spirula "australis," examined by Owen in 1879 (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. 5, vol. iii. pl. i. fig. 2),
appears also to present a reticulation of the integuments ; this character will not then be special to S.
"reticulata.”
1
