928
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
JAPAN.
Latilus argentatus, C.V. (Yokohama market); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Lophius setigerus, Wahl. (Yokohama and Kobé); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Platycephalus insidiator, Forsk. (Yokohama Bay and Inland Sea); obtained also
at Queensland, Cape York, and Hong Kong.
punctatus, C.V.
(Inland Sea); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
rudis, n.sp. (Yokohama market); obtained at no other locality.
Lepidotrigla microptera, Günther. (Inland Sea); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Gobius yokohamæ, n.sp. (Inland Sea and Yokohama Bay, 15 fathoms); obtained
at no other locality.
hexanema, Bleeker. (Inland Sea, Kobé, and Yokohama Bay, 15 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
flavimanus, Schlegel. (Yokohama market); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Callionymus lunatus, Schlegel. (Inland Sea, Kobé, and Yokohama Bay, 15 fathoms);
obtained also at Port Jackson.
Chirus hexagrammus, Pall. (Inland Sea and Yokohama market); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Agrammus schlegeli, Günther. (Yokohama market); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Centronotus nebulosus, Schlegel. (Inland Sea and Yokohama market); obtained
at no other locality by the Challenger.
Fistularia serrata, Cuv. (Yokohama); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
Platyglossus pæcilopterus, Schlegel. (Inland Sea and Yokohama market); obtained
at no other locality by the Challenger.
pyrrhogramma, Schlegel. (Yokohama market); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Pseudorhombus olivaceus, Schlegel. (Inland Sea); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
pentophthalmus, Günther. (Inland Sea); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Pleuronectes variegatus, Schlegel. (Yokohama market); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
yokohamæ, n.sp. (Inland Sea and Yokohama Bay, 15 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality.
