REPORT ON OCEANIC CIRCULATION.
35
together with the extraordinarily high temperatures accompanying them, evidence the
volume and depth of the powerful current from the Atlantic on which they depend.
At 200 fathoms this ocean is still in free contact with the Atlantic, and the higher
temperatures are well inshore. The highest isothermal is 43° to the south of the
Lofoten Isles, and it is remarkable that the isothermals of 35° and 30° are much in the
same positions as at the 100 fathoms depth. The specific gravities are virtually
identical with those at 100 fathoms, and at both depths they are highest midway between
Norway and Spitzbergen.
Except the comparatively narrow channel of the Wyville Thomson Ridge, the
whole of this ocean at 300 fathoms is cut off from the Atlantic and becomes a "closed
sea,” and as a consequence the temperature now assumes a wholly different mode of
distribution. The isothermals, instead of having a S.W. and N.E. course on the lines of
the great ocean current, indicate an area of higher temperature, with its axis approximately
about lat. 70° N., extending nearly as far west as Jan Mayen, but between it and the
Faroe Ridge there is a much lower temperature, 32°. Since in this cold area Mohn noted a
specific gravity of 1·0262, the low temperature cannot be ascribed to upwelling, but its
origin is rather to be referred to the north-west in the region marked out by the
isothermal of 30°. The increase from 30° to 32° is derived from the upper denser
waters, which, having passed the Faroe Ridge, have in their northerly course partially
sunk to lower depths, and have consequently to some extent raised both the temperature
and specific gravity.
The warmer area to the north-east, marked by the isothermals of 39°, 37° and 35°,
is coincident with the region where the great south-westerly current comes to a stop
and the north-easterly current begins its course. A head of water is no doubt formed
in the region where these south-westerly winds and attendant currents cease. The
additional pressure thereby produced, and the high specific gravities, result in a
downward movement of the upper waters, and consequently the raising of the
temperature over the region where it occurs. The increase of temperature from this
strong downward movement is less and less as the depth increases, but it is distinctly
traceable at least as far as 700 fathoms, and is still accompanied with the high specific
gravities of the surface.
The positions of the isothermals from 300 to 700 fathoms make it plain that the
movements of the ocean at these depths are strongly downwards rather than
horizontal; that the influence of prevailing winds on the surface and deeper currents
arising from them is no longer felt in any recognisable degree; and that all movements
are virtually restricted to those caused by differences of temperature and salinity. The
position retained by the region of higher temperature quite disproves the idea of the
existence of any vorticose movement in these deep waters.
At 1000 fathoms and greater depths the temperature to the south-west of Spitz-
