SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
905
STATION 232.
>
Stictoliscus parallelus, A. Schmidt, forma trigona.
Arachnoidiscus ornatus, Ehrenberg.
Stephanopyxis turris, Ralfs, var. brevispina, Grunow.
Auliscus cælatus, Bailey.
Isthmia nervosa, Kutzing.
enerris, Ehrenberg.
Bidolulphia pulchella, Gray.
grundleri, A. Schmidt.
Cerataulus turgidus, Ehrenberg.
Triceratium favus, Ehrenberg,
grande, Brightwell.
affine, Grunow.
tumescens, Castracane.
Triceratium arcticum, Brightwell.
calvescens, Castracane.
gibbosum, Bailey.
unlulatum, Ehrenberg.
Euodia janischii, Grunow.
Hemidiscus cuneiformis, Wallich.
ventricosa, Castracane.
sp. (?).
Aulacodiscus affinis, Grunow.
polygonus, Grunow.
Hercotheca mamillaris, Ehrenberg.
Chatocerus coarctata, Lauder.
Bacteriastrum spirillum, Castracane.
Proximity to land is indicated by the presence of several fresh-water species.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in the ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-Nets.
neighbourhood of this Station :-
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40). OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
Halocypris atlantica, Lubbock.
Theocampe cryptoprora, Haeckel.
brevirostris, Dana.
Auloceros furcosus, Haeckel.
imbricata, n.sp.
Sagoplegma pyramidophora, Haeckel.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Medusetta quadrigata, Haeckel.
Salpa runcinata - fusiformis,
Castanissa crosbiei, Haeckel.
Chamisso-Cuvier.
In addition, Diatoms, Peridinium, Daphnia in quantities, and Copepods, are recorded
in the note-books.
Stations 233 and 233A, off Japan (see Chart 35).
STATIONS 233
AND 233A.
May 17 and 19, 1875.
While the ship was at anchor at Kobé, the steam pinnace was out dredging in the
bay on these dates in depths of 8 to 50 fathoms; the deposit in 8 fathoms was a
Blue Mud, containing 11:32 per cent. of carbonate of lime (Station 233), and in 50 fathoms,
off the lighthouse in Akasi Strait, the deposit was Sand (Station 233A).
DREDGE.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the dredgings at Animals FROM
these Stations :
Keratosa (Poléjaeff, Zool. pt. 31).
Cacospongia collectrix (Schulze). One specimen ; obtained also at Station 203.
