vi
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
1
during the past five years, and has been a peculiarly heavy piece of work.
It involved a search for all available material, extracting the observations
and reducing them to uniform standards, charting them thereafter on a large
number of maps, a selection only of which are published with this Report.
Much time was required in the preparation of the maps, Nos. I. and II.,
which exhibit the mean annual temperature and specific gravity of the
surface of the ocean. The practice of including annual means in their
published tables and maps of sea-temperatures and salinities has been
hitherto seldom adopted by meteorologists, consequently it was necessary to
calculate these means where possible, since it is from such alone that any
satisfactory discussion of the temperature and specific gravity of the ocean
at all depths can proceed.
The present Report is divided into two parts, the first dealing with the
surface of the ocean, and the second with the deeper ocean waters. The
former gives a brief résumé of those atmospheric conditions which bear on
the question, particularly the distribution of pressure and the prevailing
winds dependent on the pressure. Attention is pointedly drawn to the
intertropical distribution of pressure and the area within this region where
pressure is lowest, since the position of this area or band with reference to
the equator appears to give the key to the solution of the problems under
consideration, viz., whether any of the surface currents of the ocean,
generated and maintained by the trade winds, cross the equator, bearing
with them a high temperature and high specific gravity into another
hemisphere than that in which they had their origin. The relation of the
prevailing winds to the great currents of the ocean is pointed out as well as
the relation of the rainfall to the specific gravities. The distribution of the
temperature of the surface of the ocean and of its specific gravity is fully
described and illustrated on the first two maps. On twenty-seven maps
the
temperatures of the sea at 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, &c., fathoms down to 200
fathoms were entered with the view of ascertaining approximately the depth
1
1
