SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1003
SANDWICH
ISLANDS.
Discorbina tabernacularis, Brady.
Planorbulina larvata, Parker and Jones.
Truncatulina echinata, Brady.
lobatula (Walker and Jacob).
variabilis, d'Orbigny.
Carpenteria monticularis, Carter.
* Pulrinulina menardii (d'Orbigny).
repanda (Fichtel and Moll).
Rotalia beccarii (Linné).
Gypsina vesicularis (Parker and Jones).
Polytrema miniaceum (Linné).
Nonionina scapha (Fichtel and Moll).
Polystomella craticulata (Fichtel and Moll).
striatopunctata (Fichtel and Moll).
Amphistegina lessonii, d’Orbigny.
Operculina complanata (Defrance).
var. granulosa, Leymerie.
Heterostegina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Surface Organisms—The following species are recorded from the surface in the ORGANISMS FROM
neighbourhood of the Sandwich Islands -
SURFACE-Nets.
ANNELIDA (M'Intosh, Zool. pt 34).
Alciopa (?) quadrioculata, n.sp.
Alciopa (?) sp.
Greeffia oahuensis, n.sp.
Acartia denticornis, n.sp.
Pontella plumata (Dana).
Oithona challengeri, n.sp.
Lubbockia squillimana, Claus.
Oncæa obtusa (Dana).
Saphirina ovalis, Dana.
metallina, Dana.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Scolecithrix danæ (Lubbock).
Candace pachydactyla, Dana.
During the stay at Honolulu the tow-net yielded mostly the usual oceanic things,
except when quite near the reefs, where there were very many Zoëæ of crabs, pieces of
sea-weeds, and fine sediment containing many small Infusoria.
In Pearl Harbour a
Daphnia or Evadne was found. Cymbalopora (Tretomphalus) bulloides was always
abundant.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The principal surface animals in Honolulu Harbour were
Sagitta and Corycæus, among which were several Zoëæ of Squilla evidently just escaped
from the eggs, representing an earlier stage than those met with in the open sea. The
surface in Hilo Bay swarmed with small things, principally minute Copepods, along with
some Annelid larvæ, and Brachyurous Zoëæ.”
Station 262 (Sounding 404), Sandwich Islands to Tahiti (see Chart 38 and
Diagrain 19).
STATION 262,
August 20, 1875; lat. 19° 12' N., long. 154° 14' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 77°:8; mean for the day, 76°:1.
