SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1119
STATION 298.
DIATOMACEÆ.—The following species were observed by Mr. Comber.
Grammatophora macilenta, Smith.
Coscinorliscus biangulatus, A. Schmidt.
undulata, Ehrenberg.
janischii, A. Schmidt.
Coscinodiscus lineatus, Ehrenberg.
var. arafurensis, Grunow.
excentricus, Ehrenberg.
apiculatus, Ehrenberg, var. woodwarılii.
minor, Ehrenberg.
concinnus, Smith.
curvatulus, Grunow.
sp. (?).
subtilis, Ehrenberg.
Paralia sulcata, Cleve.
marginatus, Ehrenberg.
Melosira mediterranea, Grunow, var. punctulata, Brun.
radiatus, Ehrenberg.
Actinoptychus areolatus, A. Schmidt.
oculus-iridis, Ehrenberg.
undulatus, Ehrenberg.
obscurus, A. Schmidt.
Hemidiscus cuneiformis, Wallich.
>
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-ETS.
Surface Organisms.– The followiny species are recorded from the surface in the
vicinity of this Station :-
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40). SchizopODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Acrosphæra echinoides, Haeckel.
Euphausia mucronata, n.sp.
Spongocore puella, Haeckel.
Siriella thompsoni (M.-Edwards).
Dicranastrum trifarium, Haeckel.
Euchætomera tenuis, n.g., n.sp.
Sphærocapsa pavimentata, Haeckel.
Castanella thomsoni, Haeckel.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Salpa
democratica - mucronata, ,
Centropages brachiatus, Dana.
Forskål.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books from the tow-nets at the
surface and down to 200 fathoms :-Peridinium (tri pos and other species), Globigerina
and other small Foraminifera, Acanthometræ and Challengeridæ, Infusoria, Medusæ,
Agalmopsis and other Siphonophoræ, Ctenophoræ, Sagitta, Alciopa, Tomopteris,
Aphroditacean and other Annelid larvæ, Cypridina, Copepods, Mysis, Crustacean larvæ,
Pteropods and larvæ, larval Polyzoa (Membrani pora), Appendicularia, small fishes and
fish eggs. The tow-net at the weights contained Foraminifera, Challengeridæ and other
Radiolaria, &c. The surface water was full of small Infusorial organisms (Tintinnida),
and two or three bladder-like organisms were noticed, which were probably collapsed
Noctilucæ. The deep-blue colour of the water observed for a long time past gave place
to a green colour, and on the whole there was a great change in the general character
of the surface fauna, pointing to the nearness of a great continent, similar to what
was observed off Japan and elsewhere. On November 18, the water was very green in
colour, and the ship occasionally passed through large red or brown patches, which
the tow-net showed to be due to immense numbers of red Copepods, Hyperids, and other
Crustacea.
