1454
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
So on.
southern zones of latitude, and not in the intervening tropics, been taken into
consideration.
Let us now limit our attention to species taken in the southern zone of latitude in
depths greater than 500 fathoms which may be considered as representing the
deep-sea fauna.
To the south of the tropic of Capricorn the Challenger pro-
Species Captured cured 793 species from depths greater than 500 fathoms, all of which live on
IN DEPTHS
GREATER THAN,
the bottom or close to it. 610 of these, or 76:9 per cent., are limited to the
AND LESS THAN, southern zone of latitude, 48 species, or 6 per cent., occur in all the three
500 FATHOMS.
zones, and 52 species, or 6'5 per cent., occur in the northern and southern zones
and not in the intervening tropics. Nearly similar results are obtained by limiting
our examination to the species captured deeper than 1000 fathoms, 1500 fathoms, and
If we now turn our attention to the animals captured in the shallower zones in
the southern zone of latitude, it will be found that the species captured in depths less
than 500 fathoms numbered 1875, and of these 102 species, or 5.4 per cent., occur in
the northern zone, and not in the intervening tropics. Speaking generally, the per-
centage of species occurring in all the three great zones of latitude is slightly higher
in the deeper zones than in the shallower, but the percentage of species which occur in
the northern and southern zones, and not in the intervening tropics, remains nearly
the same in deep and in shallow water when the species given on pages 1446 to 1450
are taken into consideration. From this examination again, it does not appear that
there is any sufficient evidence for the belief in a universal deep-sea fauna of great
antiquity. There are many indications that the migration into the deep sea has taken
place continuously since Mesozoic times, when possibly cooling set in at the poles, and
is even now going on. The indications that this migration is taking place principally
from polar regions are more distinct than those of migration from any other quarter,
although instances might be cited of groups now living in tropical regions about the
mud-line which have apparently a much wider distribution in the deep sea.
In all the shallow-water dredgings about the islands of the Great Southern Ocean,
Distribution of such as Kerguelen, Heard Island, the Falklands, and Crozets, numerous species of
the Isopod genus Serolis were procured on muddy deposits. Species of this genus,
modified for deep-sea life, were likewise obtained in diminished numbers at great depths
in high southern latitudes, and some large species were dredged in very deep water as
far north as the equator, although the genus is not represented in the littoral region in
these latitudes, and, with one doubtful exception, there do not seem to be any repre-
sentatives of the genus north of the equator. This may be taken as an instance of how
animals have spread from the mud-line to deeper zones and from the Antarctic area
northward over the floor of the ocean, but it is altogether improbable that littoral
species can, as has been suggested, pass by way of the deep sea from the littoral zone of
one polar region to that of the other.
THE GENUS
SEROLIS,
