1078
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 280.
At 5 A.m. shortened and furled sails, and got up steam to sound and trawl. At 6 A.M.
sounded in 2050 fathoms, only a small quantity of the deposit being obtained adhering
to the sounding-tube. At 8 A.M. put trawl over. At 10 A.M. sounded in 1940 fathoms.
The sounding-tube contained a piece of wood perforated by worms. Obtained serial
temperatures down to 1500 fathoms. At 3 P.M. trawl came up containing only two or
three specimens, while the tow-net attached brought up some fragments of volcanic rock
and two or three manganese nodules. The trawl was used without a bag. At 3.10 P.M.
made sail. A black albatross was seen about the ship on the afternoon of October 5.
Tubuai Island distant at noon, 284 miles. Made good 63 miles. Amount of current
13 miles, direction S. 73° W.
ANIMALS FROM
Trawl.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this
Station :
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Cythere dictyon, n.sp. For distribution see Station 24.
Polyzoa (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Catenaria bicornis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
The Station-book records also an Esperid.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed in the deposit from this Station ; the pelagic species, which make up about
84 per cent of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
>
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina seminulum (Linné).
venusta (Karrer).
Haplophragmium latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Hormosina carpenteri, Brady.
Trochammina trullissata, Brady.
Verneuilina pygmæa (Egger).
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
Ehrenbergina hystrix, Brady.
Lagena formosa, Schwager.
marginata (Walker and Boys).
Uvigerina asperula, Czjzek.
pygmæa, d'Orbigny.
x Globigerina æquilalateralis, Brady.
bulloides, d'Orbigny.
conglobata, Brady.
sacculifera, Brady.
x Orbulina universa, d'Orbigny.
x Pullenia obliquiloculata, Parker and Jones.
sphæroides (d'Orbigny).
x Sphæroidina dehiscens, Parker and Jones.
x Candeina nitida, d'Orbigny.
Truncatulina pygmæa, Hantken.
ungeriana (d'Orbigny).
wuellerstorfi (Schwager).
Pulvinulina crassa (d’Orbigny).
favus, Brady.
menardii (d'Orbigny).
micheliniana (d'Orbigny).
partschiana (d'Orbigny).
patagonica (d'Orbigny).
tumida, Brady.
umbonata, Reuss.
Rotalia soldanii, d'Orbigny.
Nonionina pompilioides (Fichtel and Moll).
umbilicatula (Montagu).
X X
Х
Х
x
99
х
Х
