SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
887
STATION 228.
golden band round it (like Semper’s Cælenterate larva), Beroë, Echinoderm larvæ,
Sagitta, Alciopa, Sipunculid and Echiurid larvæ, Cypridina (three or four species),
Pontella, Copilia, Calanus, Setella, Saphirina, Hyperids, Oxycephalus, Erichthus,
Euphausia, Regulus lucidus, Dana, Lucifer, Sergestes and larvæ, Phyllosoma,
Zoëæ, Halobates, small Lamellibranchs and Gasteropods, Atlanta, Cardiopoda,
Firoloida, Pteropods and larvæ in great variety, small Cephalopods, Appendicularia,
Duliolum, Salpa, small fishes. A female shark (Carcharias) was caught; it
had the remains of a noddy tern in its stomach. What appeared to be a true
Amaba was observed, but it may have escaped from some of the animals on the
slide. Hastigerina became abundant, while the other Foraminifera became less
numerous ; it was always of a red colour and always had spines, along which it threw
out its pseudopodia, attaching itself to the glass globe by other pseudopodia ; it had no
yellow cells (zooxanthellæ) like Orbulina and Globigerina. The red sarcode mass of
Aulosphæra was often separated from the skeleton, and was found in the globe among
the other things without reticulated sphere. Some of the specimens of Ilalobates lived
for a long time in a glass globe, diving frequently and carrying with them a bubble
of air.
The following species are recorded from the surface in this part of the Pacific, in
February and March 1875, the exact date not being noted :-
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phronimella elongata, Claus.
PELAGIC HEMIPTERA (White, Zool. pt. 19).
Halobates wüllerstorffi, Frauenfeld.
germanus, n.sp.
NUDIBRANCHIATA (Bergh, Zool. pt. 26).
Glaucilla briarcus (Reinhardt).
Schizopoda (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Nematoscelis rostrata, n.g., n.sp.
Siriella gracilis, Dana.
MACRCRA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Sergestes corniculum, Krøyer.
læviventralis, n.sp.
Sciacaris telsonis, n.g., n.sp.
Amphion sp. (?), (Zoëæ).
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Pyrosoma sp. (?).
Salpa runcinata - fusiformis,
Chamisso-Cuvier.
Station 229 (Sounding 367), Admiralty Islands to Yokohama (see Chart 31, and
Diagrams 14 and 16).
STATION 229.
April 1, 1875; lat. 22° 1' N., long. 140° 27' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 79°:8; mean for the day, 77°-3.
