SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1455
In addition to the strictly benthonic animals living attached to or creeping over
the bottom, there are likewise in deep-water regions numerous Fishes, Crustaceans, and
other organisms which live within about 100 fathoms of the bottom and occasionally rest
upon it. These species are frequently taken in the trawls when this instrument has
heen dragged immediately over but not allowed to touch the mud or ooze covering the
bed of the sea, and are also captured in the cages or traps let down into deep water.
It has, however, been doubted whether the intervening waters in mid-ocean between one
hundred fathoms above the bottom and a few hundred fathoms beneath the surface are
inhabited by marine organisms. The tow-net experiments carried out on board the
Challenger during several years in all parts of the world led me to the conviction that
these intermediate regions were inhabited, although with a much less abundant The Fauna OF
fauna than the waters near the bottom or those near the surface of the ocean. Depuis is
THE INTERMEDIATE
Thousands of hauls of the tow-nets were taken in the surface and sub-surface OCEAN WATERS.
waters, and the contents were daily submitted to microscopic examination; the
forms present in these waters became quite familiar to the naturalists.
When,
however, the tow-nets were sent down to deep water, and dragged in depths as
nearly as possible of 500, 1000, and 2000 fathoms, organisms--such as the Tuscaroridæ
among the Radiolaria—were nearly always observed in the gatherings in addition
to the usual surface organisms. Organisms from these intermediate layers of water
appear to have a much wider horizontal distribution than the surface fauna or
flora. These oft-repeated experiments produced a strong belief that all the
intermediate zones of depth were inhabited. I am not aware that the Tuscaroridæ
have ever been taken in the surface or sub-surface waters. It is probable that the
animals in the intermediate zones of depth obtain their food by the capture of the dead
organisms continually falling from surface to bottom. It is well known that the deposits
at the bottom are in most regions chiefly made up of the dead shells and skeletons of
surface organisms. We have no definite ideas as to the rate at which these surface
creatures may be falling to the bottom, but it is evident that nets which have been
dragged in these intermediate depths on the opening and closing principle, without
capturing any of these falling organisms, have either not been dragged for a sufficiently
long time and through a sufficiently great extent of water, or have not worked
successfully
The surface and sub-surface organisms are distributed in zones of latitude
similar to the benthonic animals and plants of the shallow-water regions along the
shore, but a very much greater number of the species are circum-tropical, circum-boreal,
circum-antiboreal, and circum-polar. Species of Diatoms, Coccospheres, Rhabdospheres,
Pyrocystis, Oscillariæ, Protococcaceæ, Halosphæra, and the yellow cells of Radiolaria Pelagic ALGE.
and Foraminifera together with other unicellular Algæ, abound in the surface-waters
