REPORT ON SPIRULA.
15
3322
Their axis rises between the nidamental glands, properly so-called, and the accessory
glands. These organs are retained at the internal face of the mantle at the dorsal side
of their axis, by a support (“pallio-branchial ligament,” Pl. I. fig. 6, pb.), upon which
no “spleen ” or blood-gland is to be observed. In front of the branchial support, and
more ventrally, the internal face of the mantle shows a lateral cartilaginous prominence
(" button” of the resistance apparatus); an elongated prominence of the same appear-
ance exists (at least in Spirula reticulata) on the dorsal side of the internal face of the
mantle, on the median line, anteriorly, opposite to the middle of the infundibular collar.
e
cruze
1
II. NERVOUS SYSTEM.
As in all Cephalopods (including Nautilus) the central nervous system is situated
around the wesophagus behind the buccal bulb (Pl. III.), and, as in the Dibranchiates,
this nervous system is contained in a cartilaginous capsule (Pl. V. figs. 1, 3), which was
treated of above. 1
Setting aside the enormous optic ganglia (Pl. V. fig. 2, 0.g.), which occupy the
right and left sides of the central nervous mass, we recognise in this last the following
ganglia :-(A) One pair of supra-oesophageal: cerebral ganglia (Pl. V. figs. 1, 2, 3, 9.c.), and
(B) three pairs infra-esophageal : (a) anterior: brachial ganglia (g.p.); (6) median: pedal
ganglia (9.p.); (c) posterior; pleuro-visceral or “ chlamydo-splanchnic” ganglia (g.ch.s.).
Besides, it is necessary to distinguish still another little pair, anterior supra-csopha-
geal, called “superior buccal” (s.b.g.), far removed
from the cerebral centres, as in the Egopsids (Fig.
L, ix), although in the Sepiidæ they are very much
nearer, and in the Octopods they are fused with
them, forming the anterior part.”
These “superior buccal” ganglia are united
to the cerebral ganglia by long connective cords ;
in the Challenger specimen the left connective cord
Fig. L.--Central nervous system of Ommatostrephes
shows the peculiarity of being double (Pl. V. fig. 2). pteropus, left hand side view; magnified. i,
buccal mass; ii, brachial ganglion ; iii, pedal
The connective cords uniting the superior buccal ganglion; iv, pleuro-visceral ganglion;v, posterior
salivary glands; v', esophagus; vi, section of
ganglia to the brachial centres have not been seen the optical nerve ; vii, cerebral ganglion ; viii,
stomato-gastric ganglion; ix, “superior buccal'
and have probably escaped notice; but the cerebro-
ganglion ; x, anterior salivary gland, uncovered.
brachial cords have been observed and are rather long (Pl. V. fig. 4, x).
X
Pilet
VI
ceri
bo
1 Ventrally and laterally the central nervous system is surrounded and separated from the cartilage by
a glandular looking substance (Pl. III., ad., and Pl. V. fig. 1), as in other Dibranchiates (where it is called
“white body "), the microscopic examination of which suggests that it is a blood gland.
2 The facts that this segmentation of cerebral centres exists in a form so archaic as Spirula, and that the
superior buccal ganglia resulting therefrom are very far removed from the cerebral ganglia properly so-called,
prove that the disposition presented by the Octopods is not the primitive one.
