SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
851
Idothea, Amphion, Lucifer, Grapsus, small shells, larvæ of Pneumonoderma, Station 217.
Appendicularia. Many fishes, sharks, and whales were seen among the driftwood.
Moseley writes: “We passed through lines of driftwood, disposed in curves parallel
with the shore of New Guinea. In the morning the screw had to be stopped several
times for fear of fouling. The logs of wood were comparatively fresh, being covered only
with young Balanids and a few Hydrozoa, but only scantily. Among the wood were many
whole uprooted trees, some of which were curved in the stem, as are trees which overhang
streams. I saw one tree two feet in diameter of trunk. The majority of the pieces were
of small wood, branches, &c. The bark was often floating separately. The stems of the
leaves of some pinnate palm were abundant, and also stems of a large Arundo, apparently
very like the one so abundant on the shores of the Wai Levu in Fiji. The broken-off
stem of a reed, which showed fine branches at the upper end, was 14 feet in length and
14 inches in diameter (2 inches at the knots). Various fruits of trees, &c., were abundant,
usually floating confined in the midst of the small aggregations into which the floating
timber was almost everywhere gathered. Amongst these seeds were those of two species
of Pandanus (the usual littoral species as in Arrou, I think), seeds of Heritiera littoralis
and fruits, a Barringtonia, with the fruit also of Ipomea pes capra, but besides the
fruits of these littoral plants were seeds of about forty species of plants most evidently
from a higher level more inland. Amongst these were several myrtaceous and leguminous
fruits (entada), a Calamus fruit, and seeds of a conifer apparently, also a fruit
apparently of a Fagus, and there were lichens on the small pieces of twigs, &c. Very
small seeds were as abundant as large ones, in fact more abundant, but it was only
discovered too late, when the recall for my boat was hoisted, that the surface scum
was full of these small seeds, which were to be obtained in abundance by skimming it
with a net. The entire absence of leaves, except those of the palm (for the pinna were
present on some of the palm leaves) was striking; the leaves evidently drop first to the
bottom as vegetable drift floats from a shore, hence that part of a marine geological bed
found to abound in leaves with few fruits was probably formed near land, or at least a
bed full of fruits and wood without leaves was probably formed at a distance from land.
Much of the wood was floating suspended vertically in the water, and most curiously
logs and short branch pieces thus floating were often in separate groups apart from the
horizontally floating timber. I did not examine these groups with sufficient care.
Perhaps the water penetrates and waterlogs wood more easily in one direction with
regard to growth than in the other; hence one end becomes waterlogged sooner. The
fruits and wood were covered with the eggs of some Mollusc and with a Hydroid, and
the interstices were filled with Radiolarians, washed into them and gathered in masses,
as the Diatoms in the south were gathered in the honeycombed ice. A small Dendrocælous
Planarian, with central mouth, diffuse ovaries, a superior penis, and single generative aper-
ture, was in swarms upon everything, not only upon the dead matter but all over the living
