1446
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
south of the tropic of Capricorn, and those taken north of the tropic of Cancer. In the
foregoing lists (pages 1277–1429), as previously stated, the letter T after a name
indicates that the species was taken within the tropics ; N in like manner indicates the
An examination of these lists
northern, and S the southern great zone of latitude.
with reference to the animals occurring north and south of the tropics, but not
within the tropics, brings out some interesting results.
The following 91 species were taken by the Challenger to the South and North of
the tropics, and not within the intervening tropical zone, but 11 of these species
(marked thus *) are recorded from other sources as having been obtained within the
tropics :-
KERATOSA :
OPHIUROIDEA :
Psammopemma densum, Marshall. Ophiacantha rosea, n.sp.
Ophiernus vallincola, n.g., n.sp.
MONAXONIDA :
Ophiocten hastatum, n.sp.
* Halichondria panicea, Johnston.
Ophioglypha bullata, n.sp.
* Tedania digitata (Schmidt).
confragosa, n.sp.
Tentorium semisuberites (Schmidt).
ECHINOIDEA :
HEXACTINELLIDA :
* Echinocardium australe, Gray.
Aulocalyx irregularis, n.g., n.sp.
Echinus norvegicus, Düben and Koren.
Chonelasma lamella, n.g., n.sp.
Phormosoma hoplacantha, n.sp.
*Schizaster fragilis (Düben and Koren).
ACTINIARIA :
HOLOTHURIOIDEA :
Cereus spinosus, n.sp.
Euphronides depressa, n.g., n.sp.
Liponema multiporum, n.g., n.sp.
Holothuria lactea, n.sp.
CORALS :
thomsoni, n.sp.
Caryophyllia communis (Seguenza). Kolga nana, n.sp.
Cladocora arbuscula, M.-Edwards and Lætmogone wyville-thomsoni, n.g., n.sp.
Haime.
Psolus operculatus, Pourtalès.
Flabellum apertum, n.sp.
Trochostoma albicans, n.sp.
NEMERTEA :
HYDROIDA:
Cerebratulus macroren, n.sp.
Halecium beanii, Johnston.
Perisiphonia filicula, n.g., n.sp.
Pelagonemertes rollestoni, n.g., n.sp.
CRINOIDEA :
ANNELIDA :
Eunice ærstedi, Stimpson.
Antedon abyssicola, n.sp.
vittata, Delle Chiaje.
ASTEROIDEA :
Eupista darwini, n.g., n.sp.
Dytaster exilis, n.g., n.sp.
Placostegus ornatus, Sowerby.
Pontaster forcipatus, n.g., n.sp.
Terebellides stræmi, Sars.
