24
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
vin
VD
10
side)=Ps, Pl. III.; viji, part of the
the last chamber.
all the Cephalopods, also merit the name of auricles ; they empty on each side into the
ventricle (Fig. P; Pl. VI. fig. 8).
Between the portion of the mantle enclosed in the last chamber of the shell and the
part of the visceral sac contained therein, there is, in Spirula reticulata, a sharply
limited sinus (Fig. Q, iv) with rather thick walls, communicating with the cavity of the
membranous siphuncle; no other communication has been seen
with this sinus, but it is certainly to be presumed that it
presents in some place a contractile orifice analogous to
“ Keber's valvule" in the Lamellibranchs.
The physiological action of this sinus appears very
important and apparently regulates the hydrostatic conditions
Fig. Q.-Median sagittal section of the
terminal part of the siphuncle, left
of Spirula, and consequently the production of new chambers
view; magnified. i, reflected mantle
on the shell (ventral side)=P, Pl. of the shell. In fact the cavity of the membranous siphuncle
III.; ii, membranous siphuncle; iii,
shell siphuncle ; iv, pallio-siphonal
is a blood sinus continuous with the preceding (in the
sinus; v, penultimate chamber of
the shell ; vi, last septum; vii, terminal enlargement of the siphuncle this cavity occupies the
mantle reflected on the shell(dorsal
dorsal side, see Fig. Q). This membranous siphuncle may then
visceral mass (liver) included in
be distended by the blood coming from the pallial sinus, and
the constriction of its proximal portion by the hermetic muff of the shell siphuncle (Fig.
B, i) permits it by its enlargement to compress the gas contained in the shell siphuncle,
without this gas being able to flow back into the last chamber under the mass of the
liver. We thus explain how it can produce a change of equilibrium, in contracting or
distending this gas, according as the Spirula wishes to descend or ascend, the pressure
remaining always constant in the air chambers, quite separated from the siphuncle.
On the other hand, when by continued growth the weight of the animal threatens to
become too great for the hydrostatic apparatus constituted by the air chambers of the
shell, the distension of the pallio-siphonal sinus pushes forward insensibly the visceral
mass resting upon the last septum, and thus permits the continuity of the secretion of the
shell by the margins of the true mantle (Pl. III., margins of P); the last chamber is
thus completely formed. Then the contraction of the sinus clearing this last, a new
septum is secreted in turn by the whole surface of the true mantle (Pl. III., P") at the
same time that a new segment of the shell siphuncle is produced by the membranous
siphuncle.
1 It is evident that a mechanical interpretation of the means of progression in the shell, and the ascent
and descent in the water, is alone admissible, and that no naturalist will accept that proposed by Barrande in
1877: “They must there and then have been inspired and imposed by the Creator at the moment when the
Cephalopods had been introduced among the inhabitants of the Silurian Seas” (Barrande, Céphalopodes,
Etudes générales, Prague, 1877, p. 210).
