SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
815
STATION 210.
BRACHYURA (Miers, Zool. pt. 49).
Anamathia pulchra, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Echinoplax moseleyi, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Oxypleurodon stimpsoni, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 192.
Only species of the genus.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA (Smith, Zool. pt. 35).
Semele (Abra) philippinensis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Amussium jeffreysiä, n.sp. Several specimens; obtained at no other locality.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Nossa (Aciculina) babylonica, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Fusus (Metula) philippinarum, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Phos bathyketes, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Pleurotoma (Genota) atractoides, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
Natica philippinensis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Neobythites macrops, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 173.
Synaphobranchus pinnatus (Gronov.). One specimen; for distribution see
Station 125.
In addition to the foregoing, the Station-book records :—Pennatulid, Terebellid in
Sponge, two specimens of Pericera (?), and two Peneid shrimps.
1
Excluding Protozoa, over 60 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this Station, belonging to about 34 species, of which 27 are new to science, including
representatives of 5 new genera ; 19 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ Among the debris of small Spatangi, which came up in
such quantity, I found two specimens of Chætoderma, a Sipunculid first described by
Lovén from the coast of Sweden, and also found on muddy ground in deep water off the
Danish coast along with Ophelia, Priapulus, and Balanoglossus. We have taken these
Sipunculids only twice previously, off St. Thomas, W.I., and off Nova Scotia, and always
very few specimens ; in those obtained to-day the caudal appendages, described by Lovén
as retractile, were clearly visible, and the pharynx was protruded and spiny all over.”
