SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1459
ORIGIN OF MARINE
AND FRESH-WATER
shore and shallow-water origin. In polar waters a marked peculiarity of the tow-net
gatherings is the almost total absence of pelagic larvæ belonging to benthonic
organisms, and we know that many of the Echinoderms and other shallow-water
animals of the Arctic and Antarctic regions are furnished with pouches in which
the young are reared;" the same appears to be true of the animals living about
and deeper than the mud-line in all parts of the world. In temperate zones
where there is a wide range in annual temperature the pelagic larvæ of benthonic
animals appear only in the spring or summer seasons; in the tropics they are
present at all times in the surface waters. If there were once a nearly universal
climate over the whole ocean, we may suppose that the same species of benthonic
animals were nearly everywhere present in the shallow-water zones. When cooling
at the poles set in, those animals with pelagic larvæ would be killed out or be Fatsas.
forced to migrate towards the warmer tropics. By being able to limit the reproductive
process to the summer season, some of these organisms with free-swimming larvæ have
been able to live on in the temperate regions, but in the tropical and coral-reef regions we
have the remnants of a once universally distributed shallow-water fauna. With the
disappearance of this shallow-water fauna from the polar regions its place would be
occupied by the organisms from the deeper mud-line, very few of which possess
pelagic larvæ. In this way we may account for the identity or similarity between
the polar marine faunas and floras, the great abundance of individuals and the
relatively few species in the polar areas when compared with the tropical area, as well
is the greater likeness of the shallow-water polar animals to deep-sea species. In like
manner we may account for the disappearance of coral reefs from the west coasts of
Africa and America and off Cape Guardafui, owing to the wide range of temperature in
these positions from upwelling of cold deep water. Organisms derived recently from the
mud-line animals here too occupied the shallow waters, and hence more closely
resemble polar faunas than any other fauna within the tropics. From the general
character of fresh-water species, and from the almost complete absence of free-swimming
larvæ, we may suppose that the fresh-water fauna has also been chiefly derived from
mud-line animals which ascended from the mouths of great rivers and from estuaries.
The general similarity, and, in many cases, the identity of species of marine
organisms in the Arctic and Antarctic regions, is a very remarkable fact, but probably
not a more remarkable fact than that in the tropical regions there should be among
benthonic animals hardly a marine species common to the east and west coasts of the
continent of Africa, if we exclude some brackish-water and deep-sea species. The
greater annual range and higher temperature, as well as the greater variety in the
other conditions which obtain on either side of Africa, compared with those that obtain
1 See Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. P. 379.
