1462
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
the rocks of the continents. The bases are being continually leached out of the rocks
of the continents and carried away in solution, the result being the deposition of the
greater part of the heavier materials in the abysmal regions, and the accumulation of the
greater part of the lighter insoluble and refractory quartz on or near the continents.
The average chemical composition of the pelagic or abysmal deposits shows only about
36 per cent. of silica, while that of the terrigenous deposits and continental rocks shows
about 68 per cent. of free and combined silica. Continental rocks have an average
specific gravity of about 2:5; the abysmal deposits would form rocks with a specific
gravity of over 3.1. In the original superficial crust all the silica was probably combined
with bases; the deeper layers would be more basic than the surface ones, but all the
rocks of the crust were probably much less acid than granite. Gneisses and granites
were probably formed subsequently to the commencement of subaerial denudation on
the planet. Many considerations indicate that the continental masses are lighter por-
tions of the Earth's crust. Pendulum observations indicate a deficiency of mass beneath
the continents. The plumb-line along continental coasts tend, it is said, towards the
ocean basins. The grand result of all the denuding and reconstructing agencies in the
past appears to have been a great accumulation of quartz and highly siliceous materials
on the present continental areas, that is, on the continents and the adjacent areas
covered by terrigenous deposits, and this is possibly the chief reason why the average
level of the plane of the abysmal regions lies at about three miles beneath the plane
representing the average height of the continents.
If down to the close of Palæozoic times the ocean had throughout a nearly uniform
high temperature, the deposits then formed in deep water would certainly be different,
CONTINENTAL AND
for reasons indicated above, from what we now find in the abysmal regions. It is most
probable that the Ocean Basins were not so deep in these early ages, and numerous
islands probably existed in them, with rocks similar to those that now make up the bulk
of continental land. Possibly these former land-masses now form the submerged bases
of the groups of oceanic islands wholly consisting, so far as we can see, of erupted
rocks. In the gradual evolution of the surface features of the planet, continental land
appears, on the whole, to have become more compact, more circumscribed and higher,
while the ocean basins have become more shut off from each other and deeper.
Continental land has been far from permanent, but there are many reasons for believing
that the areas on the surface of the planet, within which the present continents are
situated, are areas within which continents have been torn down and built up again since
the dawn of geological history, while similar revolutions have not taken place in
abysmal or pelagic areas of the Ocean Basins to anything like the same extent, and not at
all during any of the later geological periods. In the evolution of the surface features of
the globe and in the evolution of climate, as in the evolution of the solar system and in
the evolution of organisms, there has been a progressive advance from simple to comples
conditions, from states of more or less homogeneity to those of greater heterogeneity.
RELATIVE PER-
MANENCE OF
OCEANIC AREAS.
