BATHYMETRICAL AND GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.
From whatever point of view the student may approach problems in any way con-
nected with Oceanography, he will find the large amount of information brought together
in the foregoing pages of great assistance in forming a general picture of the physical and
biological conditions prevailing in the different regions of the Great Ocean Basins.
The principal object in view in preparing the preceding descriptions has been to
summarize the observations at each of the stations. This great array of new facts may
be compared and discussed in many ways. At one time it was proposed to conclude
these volumes with a large number of other Summaries of a special and of a general
kind, and to discuss in detail the many theoretical views suggested by the Challenger's
researches. It is not now possible to carry out this intention in the present work, for
the completion of the Challenger Report is urgently demanded. A few of the Summaries
bearing on the bathymetrical and geographical distribution of the animals captured in
the trawl or dredge are, however, appended for the convenience of naturalists. These
organisms are for the most part believed to have lived on or near the bottom of the
ocean. In all cases, however, the naturalists simply recorded the greatest depth to which
the trawl or dredge was believed to have descended at each station. It is evident that
the instrument may in the course of its progress have been dragged into deeper or shallower
water than was recorded by the sounding line, and may have captured animals in its
descent through the water, or in being hauled up again to the surface.
In the great
majority of cases there is little difficulty in separating the animals captured on the bottom
from those taken in the surface and sub-surface waters. Those about which there is some
doubt, and those in the following lists which belong to the surface or intermediate waters,
will be referred to later on. In preparing the lists, however, it was considered the best
plan, in the first instance, simply to take all the animals brought up in the trawl or
dredge at each station as the basis of the following lists.
The species have been grouped together in seven zones of depth, viz. :--
(1), The zone deeper than 2500 fathoms ; (2), The zone between 2000 and 2500
fathoms; (3), The zone between 1500 and 2000 fathoms; (4), The zone between
1000 and 1500 fathoms; (5), The zone between 500 and 1000 fathoms ; (6), The zone
between 100 and 500 fathoms; (7), The zone between 0 and 100 fathoms.
For the deeper of these zones an interval of 500 fathoms has been chosen, while, in
order to separate the essentially shallow-water species, the 100-fathom line has been
adopted as the limit of the shallowest zone.
In the first of the following lists, for example, all the animals procured in the trawls
