SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
251
---
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this
Station
STATION 63.
ANIMALS FROM
TRAWL.
ANNELIDA (M'Intosh, Zool. pt. 34).
Amphicteis gunneri (Sars), var. atlantica, nov. One specimen; the species
obtained also at Station VI.
Eupista darwini, n.g., n.sp., var. (?). One fragmentary specimen ; obtained also
at Station 298, 2225 fathoms.
Lanassa benthaliana, n.sp. One fragmentary specimen ; obtained at no other
locality.
Ehlersiella atlantica, n.g., n.sp. Several fragments; obtained also at Station
76, 900 fathoms. Only species of the genus.
Estrella levinseni, n.g., n.sp. Crustacean parasite on Ehlersiella atlantica.
CIRRIPEDIA (Hoek, Zool. pt. 25).
Scalpellum regium, Wyville Thomson, n.sp. Three specimens ; obtained also at
Station 61.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Idiacanthus ferox, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Halosaurus rostratus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Several
small Hydroids on Scalpellum, and three Actiniæ, one with Nematodes in the body-wall
and with remains of a Mysis in its stomach.
Excluding Protozoa, about 25 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 10 species, of which 8 are now to science, including
representatives of 3 new genera; 4 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm mentions a long black fish, perhaps allied to Gonostoma, and says:
“We have got this group of fishes hitherto under very different circumstances ; they
have been brought up by the trawl and dredge (450 to 1200 fathoms), and they have
been caught when it was believed that the trawl or dredge had not reached the bottom,
but they cannot appear very often at the surface, as we never got them in the tow-net.
On the specimens of Scalpellum were little Hydroids not got before from such great
depths, and there were some Actiniæ at first supposed to be worm-tubes. The worm-
tubes contained animals in a good state of preservation, with six palettes on each side
of the mouth, reminding me of Pectinaria. The tubes were composed of dark mud
without Globigerinæ, which Foraminifera are almost exclusively used by another worm
