42
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Christian vessels were no longer safe. It became essential to look towards the external
ocean for another route to India, Cathay, the islands of spices, and all the charms and
riches of the East.
The revelations of Marco Polo concerning the great Eastern Ocean rendered it
necessary to make important changes in Ptolemy's map of Asia. There is evidence that
this subject was much discussed in European cities, where some few men took an interest
in geographical questions. The great Florentine astronomer, Toscanelli, was apparently
the first to give definite shape to the new views, and to discuss in a scientific way the
subject of transatlantic lands. In the year 1474 he addressed a letter and a map to the
King of Portugal, setting forth clearly that it was possible to reach the land of spices by
sailing westward. Years afterwards, probably in 1480, Columbus asked Toscanelli for
information concerning the way to the land of spices, which it was thought possible to
reach by sea direct from Europe. Toscanelli replied by sending a copy of the letter and
map he had previously sent to the King of Portugal, and at the same time encouraging
Columbus to undertake the voyage across the Atlantic. Columbus is believed to have
taken Toscanelli's
map
with him on his first
voyage.
The
map has been lost, but has
been reconstructed, chiefly from materials furnished by the globe of Martin Behaim,
which bears the date of 1492. (For reproduction of Toscanelli's map, see Plate VI.)
Towards the end of the thirteenth century two Genoese galleys are said to have been
fitted out with the view of rounding Africa from the west and opening up a route to
India; this expedition was unfortunate. In 1346 a sailor of the island of Majorca,
Jacques Ferrer, also attempted to follow the west coast of Africa beyond the Canaries,
but he was not more successful than the Genoese had been. The Portuguese expedi-
tions of the fifteenth century along the African coasts were, however, the prelude to the
grand maritime explorations which resulted in the discovery of America and the circum-
navigation of the world. Not content with having expelled the Moors from their
territories, the Portuguese followed them across the sea into the continent of Africa.
These armed voyages originated a long series of discoveries in the Atlantic.
When, in 1420, Prince Henry the Navigator established his maritime observatory at
Sagres, employed the best Italian map-makers and pilots, and commenced to give an
impulse to the navigators of Portugal, these were so incompetent that they dared not
venture more than six miles from the coast.3 All the expeditions sent to round Cape
Bojador, even up till the year 1433, returned unsuccessful, because a reef extended six
miles seawards and barred the passage.
PORTUGUESE
EXPEDITIONS IN
THE FI
ENTH
CENTURY.
HENBY THE
NAVIGATOR.
1 See H. Wagner, Die Rekonstruktion der Toscanelli-Karte v. J. 1474 und die Pseudo-Facsimilia des Behaim-
Globus v. J. 1492, Nachr. d. K. Gesellsch, d. Wiss. . Göttingen, Philol.-hist. Kl., 1894, No. 3, p. 208.
2 The evidence for this expedition of the brothers Vivaldi (in 1291) is considered insufficient by R. H. Major.
3 See Peschel (op. cit., p. 237) concerning the instruments and methods employed by the Portuguese to determine
latitudes at sea.
* See R. H. Major, The Discoveries of Prince Henry the Navigator, and their Results, ed. 2, p. 68, London, 1877.
