SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
85
SEARCHES IN
"1
sea; the Natural History Societies of Northumberland, Durham, and Dublin vied with
each other in their ardour to promote fresh discoveries, and the knowledge of the marine
fauna soon made great progress.
The researches made in 1844 by Professor Lovén are directly connected with those Lovén’s RE-
of Forbes. In his Report to the British Association on the bathymetrical distribution of
SCANDINAVIA.
submarine life on the northern shores of Scandinavia, he
says : “The region of the deep-
sea coral is with us characterized in the south by Oculina ramea and Terebratula, and in
the north by Astrophyton, Cidaris, Spatangus purpureus of an immense size, all living,
besides Gorgoniæ and the gigantic Alcyonium arboreum, which continues as far down as
any
fisherman's line can be sunk. As to the point where animal life ceases, it must be
somewhere, but with us it is unknown.” Lovén established the constancy of the
laminarian zone, but in the regions he explored he found that the deep zones could no
longer be compared with those in other areas, as they varied according to latitude, nature
of the bottom, &c. He mentions a very interesting fact, viz., that the species found
between Göttenburg and Norway at a depth of 80 fathoms live on the coast of Finmark
at a depth of 20 fathoms only, thus showing the direct influence of temperature on the
bathymetrical distribution of marine organisms.
When Sir John Franklin's ill-fated Polar expedition set out in 1845, Mr. Harry FRANKLIN'S
Goodsir, a young zoologist of great promise, sailed on board the “Erebus” as assistant
EXPEDITION,
GOODSIR.
surgeon and naturalist. The expedition never returned, and only fragmentary records are
preserved of the valuable work which Goodsir had already accomplished. “On the 28th
June a dredge was sunk to the enormous depth of 300 fathoms, and produced many
highly interesting species of Mollusca, Crustacea, Asteriadæ, Spatangi, and Corallines ;
such as Fusus, Turritella, Venus, Dentalium, &c., and also some large forms of Isopoda.
As bearing upon the geographical distribution of species, Mr. Goodsir considers the
occurrence of Brissus lyrifer (Forbes) and Alauna rostrata (Goodsir) as of the greatest
interest, both of them being natives of the Scottish seas. The remarkable depth also
appears to us to give peculiar interest to these researches, as we believe that the
deepest dredgings ever previously obtained were those of Professor E. Forbes in the
Levant, the deepest of which was 230 fathoms, itself far beyond any made by other
naturalists." 2
In 1845 Professor W. C. Williamson described some Foraminifera, Diatoms, and OBSERVATIONS IN
Sponge spicules from some Mediterranean muds, and, in discussing the origin of THE MEDITER-
limestone strata in shallow and deep waters, he suggests that the whole of the WilliamSON.
calcareous organisms may be removed by carbonated waters.
In 1846 Captain Spratt, R.N., dredged in 310 fathoms, 40 miles to the east of Malta, SPRATT.
Brit. Ass. Report for 1854, Trans. of Sections, p. 50.
2 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., ser. i., vol. xvi. p. 164, 1845. Sir John Ross in the Arctic in 1818, and Sir J. C. Ross
in the Antarctic, had, however, dredged in depths greater than 400 fathoms (see ante, pp. 76 and 78).
