SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
755
STATIONS 194
AND 194A.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: “The blind Amphipod obtained [= Lanceola sp.), with
its plate-like eye-rudiments without optical apparatus, shows on the whole char-
acters peculiar to the Crevettinæ, but as its maxillipeds have no palpi it evidently
belongs to the Hyperidæ. It represents an unknown type between the two families, and
is of gigantic dimensions (about 70 mm. in length). Gigantic Crevettinæ were taken
off the Crozet Islands, and in the Antarctic we obtained a very interesting Amphipod
without eyes, in which the rostrum had apparently become a sense-organ, showing
that Amphipods are affected, though rarely, in their organs of sight, like Decapods."
AT BANDA.
The Challenger remained at Banda from 2.15 P.M. on September 29 till 8 P.M. on
October 2, 1874 (for description of the island see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 561-569).
During this time dredgings in shallow water were conducted by Mr. Murray from the
steam pinnace; the deposit in 17 fathoms was a Volcanic Sand or gravel containing
52:09 per cent. of carbonate of lime. The following species are recorded in the Zoological
Reports from the vicinity :-
ALCYONARIA (Wright and Studer, Zool. pt. 64).
ANIMALS FROM
Platycaulos danielsseni, n.g., n.sp. Obtained at no other locality. Only species BANDA.
of the genus.
Ellisella maculata, Studer. Obtained also in Torres Strait.
Sarcophytum ambiguum, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
REEF Corals (Quelch, Zool. pt. 46).
Acrohelia horrescens (Dana). Two specimens; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Seriatopora cervina (Lamarck). Obtained also at Philippines.
Pocillopora acuta, Lamarck. Obtained also at Amboina and Philippines.
Euphyllia glabrescens (Chamisso and Eysenhardt). Obtained also at Cape York.
Physogyra aperta, n.g., n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Mussa multilobata, Dana. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Symphyllia acuta, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Ulophyllia aspera, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
cellulosa, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Tridacophyllia manicina, Dana. Obtained also at Amboina and Ternate.
Hydnophora demidoff, Fischer. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Astræa pandanus, Dana. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
doreyensis (M.-Edwards and Haime). Obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
