SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
639
Clathurella (Daphnella) compsa, n.sp. (210 fathoms); obtained at no other Stations 174
locality.
To 174D.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Pennatulids and Lophohelia from 255
255 fathoms; two specimens of Willemosia
[ = Pentacheles) euthrix and small specimen of Maurolicus from 610 fathoms; small
urchin and Ranina from 210 fathoms.
Excluding Protozoa, about 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at these Stations, belonging to about 50 species, of which 37 are new to science,
including representatives of 8 new genera ; 22 of the new species and 2 new genera were
not obtained elsewhere. From the deeper water (610 fathoms) about 40 specimens
were obtained, belonging to 23 species, of which 20 are new to science, including
representatives of 7 new genera; 13 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm mentions a small specimen of Gnathophausia zoëa, two specimens
of Willemæsia euthrix (a species which seems to vary very much as regards details of the
carapace), a very peculiar Peneid, not got before, the rami of which are flat and covered
with hairs on both sides, Ranina, Galathea, Synapta with a few very small anchors,
Terebellid, and Clymene.
The following species of Pteropoda and Foraminifera were observed in the deposits ORGANISMS FROM
from these Stations (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.)
THE DEPOSITS.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65). — From 140 fathoms (Station 174).
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22). —From 610 fathoms (Station 174c); the pelagic
species, which make up about 50 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit,
are marked thus x.
9
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
irregularis, d’Orbigny.
Spiroloculina acutimargo, Brady.
crenata, Karrer.
excavata, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina circularis (Bornemann).
oblonga (Montagu).
tricarinata (d'Orbigny).
Articulina conico-articulata (Batsch).
lineata, Brady
Ophthalmidium inconstans, Brady.
Planispirina sigmoidea, Brady.
sp ().
Cornuspira involvens, Reuss.
Orbitolites complanata, Lamarck.
Alveolina boscii, Defrance.
Hyperammina elongata, Brady.
ramosa, Brady.
Haplophragmium anceps, Brady.
emaciatum, Brady.
globigeriniforme (Parker and
Jones).
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Ammodiscus gordialis (Jones and Parker).
incertus (d'Orbigny).
Trochammina pauciloculata, Brady.
