4
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
PHENICIAN
VOYAGES.
traded as far as Egypt, then to Syrtis, and, establishing colonies everywhere on their
route, they arrived at the Pillars of Hercules. At this point there opened before them the
great ocean. The Phænicians are believed to have recognised in the Atlantic an ocean
with high tides similar to the Erythræan Sea, and to have conceived the idea of a
continuous mass of water surrounding all lands.? From Gades and other settlements
outside the Pillars of Hercules they braved the great ocean itself; they sailed along the
western coast of Africa, discovered the Canaries, and Humboldt considers it very probable
that they were acquainted with the Sargasso Sea, into which they had been perhaps
driven by easterly winds. They extended their excursions towards the northern parts
of the Atlantic, and discovered the Cassiterides," where they went in search of tin, of
which they preserved the monopoly by concealing its source from rival nations. In the
1 See Ritter, Geschichte der Erdkunde und der Entdeckungen, Berlin, 1861, pp. 16 et seq. The first indications
we have of the Phænicians in Hebrew literature, however, represent them at the time of Solomon as already making
voyages to Tarshish, which appears to answer to Tartessus in the south of Spain (see Dr Smith's Dictionary of
Biblical Antiquities, vol. iii., article “Tarshish,” by Twisleton, cited by Bunbury, op. cit., vol. i. p. 5, note). That
Tarshish-Tartessus, Turdetania (basin of Guadalquivir) is certain.
2 It was at one time believed that the word ocean was derived from a Punic or Hebrew word signifying a circle or
circumference, and that the word ocean has thus been preserved, a monument, as it were, to the discoveries of the
Phænician sailors (see Humboldt, op. cit., tom. i. p. 33 ; Ritter, op. cit., p. 21). This derivation has been wholly
repudiated by modern philologists.
3 Humboldt, op. cit., tom. iii. p. 91 ; see also M. P. Merrifield on “Gulf-Weed,” Nature, vol. xviii. p. 708, 1878.
The name Sargasso is said to have been first applied to the gulf-weed by the sailors of Vasco da Gama on their return
from India in 1499. It is said to be a Portuguese name for water-cress (Nasturtium) (see Linschoten, Hist. Orient.,
p. 34). Kretschmer (op. cit., p. 165) and Krümmel (Reisebeschreibung der Plankton-Expedition, p. 118) do not admit
that the Phænicians were acquainted with the Sargasso Sea. Columbus, they hold, was the first to visit that part of
the Atlantic. The gulf-weed is frequently driven to the eastward of the westermost of the Azores (Corvo and Flores),
and it is altogether probable that the Phænicians were acquainted with the floating gulf-weed, although they may
never have ventured so far as the Sargasso Sea, properly so-called. The discovery of Carthaginian and Cyrenian coins
in Corvo—the most westerly of the Azores—is often cited as evidence that the Phænicians had extended their voyages
far into the Atlantic. The coins were in the hands of Johan Podolyn, evidently a member of the Gothenburg
Scientific and Literary Society, in whose transactions the description of the coins is published with figures. Podolyn
received them in 1761 from the Padre Florez, on visiting him in Madrid. The nine coins figured in the paper-two
Carthaginian gold coins, five Carthaginian copper coins, two Cyrenian copper coins—were selected by Florezy as the
best preserved, from a large quantity first sent to Lisbon and thence to Madrid to the Padre Florez.
These coins had, in November 1749, after some days of westerly storms, been found on the coast of Corro, in a black
earthenware vessel, broken by the storm. They were first sent to a convent on the island, and then some to Lisbon,
whence, as said above, the Padre Florez in Madrid received them (Nâgra Anmarkningar om de Gamles Sjöfart, i
anledning af några Carthaginensiska och Cyrenaiska Mynt, fundne âr 1749, på en af de Acoriska Öarne, af Johan Podolyn ;
Det Götheborgska Wetenskaps och Witterhets Samhallets Handlinger Wetenskaps Afdelningen, Först Stycket,
Gotheborg, 1778, 8°.) Humboldt had no doubt about the truth of these statements, and regrets that no full account
was preserved of the vase in which the coins were found. The positive statements about the discovery of Phænician
coins in the Azores by Chateaubriand (Autobiography, p. 195), by Daniel Wilson (New Atlantis), and in the Encyclopædia
Britannica and Chambers Encyclopædia, all seem to rest on this paper of Johan Podolyn. H. F. Walker (The Azores,
London, 1886) says there is not the slightest corroborative tradition among the inhabitants of Corvo, and discredits
the whole story. Gaffarel would lead us to think that the Phænicians had even reached America, but this will not
bear critical examination any more than those more recent attempts to show that the Phænicians had reached Central
America by the north of Australia and Easter Island in the Pacific (Gaffarel, Compte Rendu du 1er Congrés des
Americanistes, Nancy, 1875, p. 93; Gaffarel, Etude sur les rapports de l'Amérique et de l'Ancien Continent avant C.
Colomb, Paris, 1869, p. 104 ; T. C. Johnston, Did the Phænicians discover America ? Geogr. Soc. California, 1892).
* These may have been either the Scilly Islands or the islands in Vigo Bay, on the north-west coast of Spain (see
C. I. Elton, Origins of English History, ed. 2, London, 1890).
-
