642
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Stations 174
to 174D.
were : Peridinium, orbular green Algæ (Halosphæra ?), Pyrocystis, Acanthometræ and
other Radiolarians, Siphonophoræ in all stages with eggs, larvæ of Holothurians,
larvæ of Aphroditaceans, Sagitta, Saphirina, Zoëæ, Pteropods and larvæ, Appendicularia,
Salpa. On August 3 the tow-net was sent down to 20 fathoms, and produced many
Oscillatoriaceæ, the spherical green Algæ (Halosphæra), Pyrocystis, Globigerina, Orbulina,
(no Pulvinulinæ noticed), Sagitta, many Crustaceans, and Pteropods. In the stomachs
of the Salpæ were many minute organisms, both siliceous and calcareous, two forms of
Rhabdospheres, one especially abundant, and many forms of Coccospheres.
Two sharks (male and female) were caught, belonging to the same species
(Carcharias lamia). About one of them were several specimens of Naucrates ductor ;
there were many sharks about at the time, so that there appears to be no truth in the
statement that Naucrates does not accompany sharks when there is more than one shark
present. In the female the ovaria were double, and the oviduct soon dilated into a very
large uterus on each side, each of which contained four young sharks about 2 feet in
length, all attached by an umbilical cord to a placenta.
At Fii.
The Challenger Expedition remained in the vicinity of the Fiji Islands from
July 24 till August 11, 1874, visiting Matuku, Kandavu, and Ovalau (for description
of the Islands see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 487–509). The following species are
recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been obtained in shallow water, on the reefs,
or on shore, during the visit :-
ANIMALS FROM
FIJI.
ALCYONARIA (Wright and Studer, Zool. pt. 64).
Ceratoisis nuda, n.sp. A few broken specimens (Kandavu reefs-probably from
deep water); obtained at no other locality.
Calypterinus allmani, n.g., n.sp. Two specimens (Fiji reefs-almost certainly from
deep water); obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the genus.
Acamptogorgia alternans, n.g., n.sp. ( (Kandavu reefs); obtained at no other
locality.
Sarcophytum glaucum, Quoy and Gaimard. (Off Kandavu); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
trocheliophorum, Marenzeller, var. amboinense, nov.
One specimen
(Fiji reefs); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. The species recorded from Indian Ocean.
REEF CORALS (Quelch, Zool. pt. 46).
Stylophora prostrata, Klunzinger. (Fiji reefs); obtained also at Tongatabu.
palmata (Blainville). (Kandavu and other reefs); obtained also at
Ternate. Recorded from Red Sea.
