716
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
CAPE YORK.
Belone strongylurus, Bleeker. (Somerset); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
annulata, C.V. (Somerset); obtained also at Fiji.
Hemirhamphus quoyi, C.V. (Somerset); obtained at
(Somerset); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
commersoni, Cuv. (Somerset); obtained also at Fiji.
Chirocentrus dorab, Forsk. (Somerset); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Phyllopteryx tæniophorus, Gray. (Station 186, 8 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Branchiostoma cultellum, Peters. (North coast of Australia); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
In the foregoing list about 570 species of invertebrates and fishes are enumerated,
of which 171 are new to science, including representatives of 13 new genera; 140 of the
new species and 7 new genera were not obtained elsewhere.
With reference to these shallow-water dredgings, Willemoes-Suhm writes : “In
3 fathoms, off Albany Island, we got a few dead and one living Trigonia, several specimens
of Amphiozus, a specimen of a Nebalia apparently undescribed, and other things.
In deeper water, 12 fathoms, we got the Comatula, the stomachal sac of which has been
described by Lovén as a Cystidean. A black and white striped Alpheus seemed to live
parasitically on the Comatula, at least it was found attached. There were also a shrimp
with Bopyrus, a Stenorhynchus which, like the Fistularia, mimics the sea-weeds, and
fine Polyzoa. The Comatulæ were very interesting from the variety of parasites; I looked
over eighty specimens and found the following, all black and white :-Ophiurid, Alpheus,
Myzostoma (large species, present on about every tenth individual and never more than
three specimens), an Aphroditaceous Annelid, and an Isopod (Anilocra) in the stomach.”
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed during the examination of the deposit from Station 186, 8 fathoms; there is
only one pelagic species (Globigerina rubra) present, and it is rare :-
>
Biloculina ringens (Lamarck).
var. striolata, Brady.
sp. (?).
Spiroloculina excavata, d'Orbigny.
limbata, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina agglutinans (d'Orbigny).
alveoliniformis, Brady.
linneana (d'Orbigny).
Miliolina oblonga (Montagu).
reticulata (d'Orbigny).
rupertiana, Brady.
tricarinata (d'Orbigny).
trigonula (Lamarck).
32
sp. (?).
Articulina sp. (*).
Vertebralina striata, d'Orbigny.
