SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
575
With reference to these shallow-water dredgings near Sydney, Willemoes-Suhm PORT JACKSON.
writes: “The Phyllopods of the neighbourhood of Sydney belong to the genera
Limnadia and Limnetis, and are especially interesting because Limnadia, which was
first found in some parts of Europe, is constantly parthenogenetic. The male of Limnadia
is known only from the Australian species, as described by Claus; and Kreeft says
thata
males and females are constantly found together here except in the wet season, as now,
when no animals, only shells, could be got. Among the Crustacea taken in the dredgings
on June 3, I found two species of Serolis, one of which had not been taken before, many
Sphæromata, a long Stenorhynchus, and a Ranina-like crab.”
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
from the surface and down to 50 fathoms in the neighbourhood of Sydney
>
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Calanus gracilis, Dana.
tonsus, n.sp.
valgus, n.sp.
Eucalanus attenuatus (Dana).
setiger, n.sp.
Pleuromma abdominale (Lubbock).
Leuckartia flavicornis, Claus.
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
darwinii, Lubbock.
Scolecithrix dana (Lubbock).
Euchæta prestandreæ, Philippi.
Ætidius armatus, n.g., n.sp.
Temora dubia (Lubbock).
Centropages furcatus (Dana).
Candace pachydactyla, Dana.
pectinata, Brady.
Pontella acuta (Dana).
acutifrons (Dana).
plumata (Dana).
Oithona challengerii, n.sp.
Corycæus varius, Dana.
venustus, Dana.
Oncæa obtusa (Dana).
Saphirina splendens, Dana.
inæqualis, Dana.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phrosina australis, n.sp.
Anchylomera sp. (?).
Primno latreillei, n.sp.
Phorcorrhaphis edwardsi, n.sp. (Off
Australia).
Tetrathyrus moncæuri, n.sp.
Parascelus
parvus, Claus.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Euphausia latifrons, n.sp.
Nictyphanes australis, n.g., n.sp.
Thysanoëssa gregaria, n.sp.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Sergestes armatus, Krøyer.
Lucifer typus, Thompson.
Anebocaris quadroculus, n.g., n.sp.
Leptochela robusta, Stimpson.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Clio (Styliola) subula (Quoy and
Gaimard).
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Doliolum denticulatum, Quoy and
Gaimard (?).
Salpa democratica - mucronata,
Forskåhl.
>
