SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
49
been established, colonies had been founded, countries rich in precious metals had been
conquered, and people rested in the enjoyment of wealth. The time had not yet come
when civilised and educated nations would thirst for knowledge, and would send their
vessels to investigate what still remained unknown regarding the sea. The expedition of
Edmund Halley, in 1699, to improve our knowledge concerning longitude and the varia-
tion of the compass, was a purely scientific voyage; still scientific voyages were really
initiated at the time of James Cook, in the latter half of the eighteenth century.
THE OCEANS.
In the foregoing short account the important additions made to the knowledge of the
distribution of land and water during the period under consideration have been indicated.
Let us now turn to some other aspects of the science of Oceanography. After
Magellan's voyage of circumnavigation the nomenclature of the sea assumed a modern NOMENCLATURE OF
character. Sebastian Münster, in the first general map in his Cosmography,' intro-
duces the following denominations :-Mare Pacificum, Mare Indicum, Mare Septen- MÜNSTER.
trionale applied to the Arctic Ocean, Oceanus Occidentalis applied to the basin of the
Atlantic north of the equator, and Mare Aethiopicum to the southern part of the
Atlantic. Gerard Mercator, in his famous universal map, replaces the Oceanus
Occidentalis of Münster's maps by Oceanus Atlanticus, corresponding to the North
Atlantic, the southern part of the Atlantic is called Oceanus Aethiopicus, and at the
western opening of the Strait of Magellan we read El Mar Pacifico.?
According to Krümmel,' in the second half of the sixteenth century and beginning of
the seventeenth, the term Atlantic was applied :-(1) to the sea lying to the west of
Morocco (Münster); (2) to the sea to the south-west of Liberia (Münster later); (3)
to the north-west portion of that ocean (Michael Mercator); (4) to the whole of the
North Atlantic (Gerard Mercator); (5) to the whole Atlantic (Varenius); and (6) to the
Universal Ocean (Ortelius).
Varenius was the first to undertake a critical examination of this nomenclature, and VARENIUS.
he arranged it as follows: 44-(1) The Atlantic Ocean, often called Mare del Nort; this
is the sea enclosed between the western coasts of the Old World and the eastern coasts
of the New. He divides the Atlantic into two parts, one north and one south of the
equator; in the north this ocean joins the Hyperborean Sea, and in the south the
Austral Ocean. (2) The Pacific Ocean (Mare Pacificum), often given the name of
Mare del Zur; it is situated between America and Asia, and extends its immense
1 Münster, Cosmographia Universalis, Basel, 1544.
2 This Spanish nomenclature, as observed by Krümmel (Versuch einer vergleichenden Morphologie der
Meeresräume, Leipzig, 1879, p. 3), often used at that period, did not simplify matters. Thus we find a Mar
del Nort, sometimes applied to the North Atlantic and sometimes to the whole Atlantic; a Mar di India, or even a
Mar del Zur, standing for the Pacific. Traces of this singular nomenclature still exist in the names of two parts of the
Nicaragua Republic, San Juan del Norte (or Greytown), being situated twenty miles south of San Juan del Sur.
3 Krümmel, op. cit., p. 6.
+ Varenius, Geographia generalis in qua affectiones generales telluris explicantur, p. 82, Cambridge, 1672.
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.-1894.)
7
