790
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATIONS 204
TO 204B.
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
in these trawlings, belonging to 35 species, of which 25 are new to science, including
representatives of 9 new genera; 13 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : "The Philippines are rich in Cirripedia, having not less than
eighteen species ; to-day we took two, one on a Cidaris and one on the queer shell of a
Phorus. One of the Crustacea was a fine normal Nephrops distinguished by the shortness
of its antennal scale."
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface (November
2 and 3):
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76). FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78).
Pyrosoma giganteum, Lesueur (?). Scopelus caninianus (C.V.), (young).
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :- A few Diatoms, Vorticella
on Diatoms, Peridinium, Pyrocystis, Oscillatoriaceæ, Globigerina, Orbulina, Pulvinulina,
Radiolaria, larva of Nautactis, Medusæ and eight-armed larva (Cyanea). Diphyes and
other Siphonophoræ, Echinoderm larvæ, Pluteus, Sagitta, Alciopa, larvæ of Terebellids,
Sabellids, and Aphroditaceans, Pilidium, many Copepods (Copilia, Corycæus, &c.),
Oxycephalus, Crustacean larvæ, larval Lamellibranchs, Cardiopoda, Hyalæa
[= Cavolinia], Cymbulia (from the trawl), Pteropod larvæ, Appendicularia, small
Salpæ, Fritillaria, young Amphioxus.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The trawl caught a Cymbulia on the surface, three species
of which are known from the Mediterranean and one from the Pacific. As far as I am
aware we have never taken it alive, and only once (at Gibraltar) a dead shell was picked
up by Murray on the beach."
AT MANILA.
The Challenger anchored at Manila at 2.30 P.M. on November 4, remaining there till
2 P.M. on November 11, 1874.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The water in Manila Harbour generally looked very muddy,
and contained a good deal of fine mud apparently from the river. There were also many
small green masses, probably an Alga (Halosphæra). There were many Diatoms of
different species, one of which (Bacteriastrum ?) was nearly always crowded with
Vorticella, while none were noticed on any of the other species. Several kinds of
Infusoria were observed, and very many specimens of Peridinium (Peridinium tripos
and two other species), along with Pyrocystis and Noctiluca. Noctiluca had evidently
been feeding on Diatoms and other small organisms, as these were frequently found
1
