SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
661
FIJI.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Euphausia gibba, n.sp.
pellucida, Dana.
Thysanopoda tricuspidata, M.-
Edwards.
Stylocheiron carinatum, n.g., n.sp.
Agadina stimpsoni, Adams [ = larval
Gasteropod].
n.sp. [ = larval Gasteropod].
Clio (Creseis) acicula (Rang).
(Hyalocylix) striata (Rang).
(Styliola) subula
(Quoy and
Gaimard).
pyramidata, Linné.
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Cavolinia quadridentata (Lesueur).
longirostris (Lesueur).
inflexa (Lesueur).
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Sepioteuthis lessoniana, Férussac.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Penæus canaliculatus, Olivier.
Lucifer reynaudii, M.-Edwards.
Thalassocaris dana, n.sp.
stimpsoni, n.sp.
Caricyphus serramarginis, n.sp.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
lesueuri (d’Orbigny).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Doliolum denticulatum, Quoy and
Gaimard.
challengeri, n.sp.
99
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Peridinium (eleven
individuals counted in one chain), many specimens of Pyrocystis, green spherical Algæ
(Halosphæra), Ethmodiscus and other Diatoms, Globigerina, Orbulina, Rotalia attached
to fragment of seaweed, several species of Radiolaria, yellow-haired Cælenterate larva of
Semper, several forms of oceanic Hydrozoa, many Echinoderm larvæ, Sagitta, Alciopa,
Phronima, Hyperia, Oxycephalus, Squillid larvæ, Phyllosoma and many larvæ of the
higher Peneid and Caridid Decapoda, several species of small shells, Atlanta and
Pteropod shells sometimes very abundant, Theceurybia [= Halopsyche] gaudichaudi,
Pteropod larvæ, Salpa, Appendicularia, many small fishes (young Macrurids, young of
Maurolicus (?), and three very curious little fishes resembling Hooker's figure of
Ostracion boops in the British Museum Catalogue), and eggs of fish with embryos.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ Among a fine collection of Pteropods and Crustacea taken
in the tow-net on the night of August 11-12, was a curious pigment larva, with a row
of long yellow hairs, and with thread-cells in its skin, which has been figured by Semper
as ‘unbekannte Coelenteraten larve' in the Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. xvii. pp. 407–
411, 1867."
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.--1893.)
84
