512
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 157.
Х
Х
Х
9
x Globigerina dutertrei, d'Orbigny.
Anomalina grosserugosa (Gumbel) (?).
inflata, d'Orbigny.
Pulvinulina crassa (d'Orbigny).
Pullenia sphæroides, d'Orbigny.
exigua, Brady.
Spirillina decorata, Brady.
micheliniana (d'Orbigny).
Truncatulina lobatula (Walker and Jacob).
patagonica (d'Orbigny).
pygmæa, Hantken.
Rotalia soldanii, d'Orbigny.
unyeriana (d'Orbigny).
Nonionina pompilioides (Fichtel and Moll).
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—The sediment which remains after removing the
Diatoms and Foraminifera and larger mineral particles is almost entirely composed
of Radiolarians, mainly belonging to a few species of Sphæroidea, which make up
about nine-tenths of the whole mass. By far the commonest of these Spumellaria is
Cromyosphæra antarctica, which is probably genetically related with the very similar
form, Cromyomma perspicuum, occurring on the surface at the same Station. Of
the other Spumellaria the Discoidea are the most abundant, particularly the spongy
forms (Spongodiscida, e.g., Spongodiscus, Spongotrochus, Stylotrochus). Particularly
noteworthy is a new genus, Spongopyle, not described in the Report ; it is a Spongodiscid
with a marginal osculum like that of the Porodiscid Ommatodiscus, which also occurs at
this Station. In contrast to the large number of Sphæroidea and Discoidea, the
Prunoidea and Larcoidea are present only as isolated specimens.
Very few species of Nassellaria are present, but among them the Botryodea, which are
generally rare, are rather abundant, especially Botryocella borealis and Botryopyle
cribrosa. The most common Cyrtoidea are a few cosmopolitan forms, for example,
Cornutella clathrata, Cornutella cannulata, and Lithomitra lineata.
The Acantharia are only represented in this deposit by a single rare species,
Pantopelta icosaspis.
The Phæodaria are represented by a few remarkable forms, such as Sagenoscena
penicillata, Aulosphæra bisternaria, Cannosphæra antarctica, and Conchasma hippurites ;
all these, however, are rare.
The following list has been compiled by Dr. F. Dreyer :-
I. SPUMELLARIA.
Hexacontium hexaconicum, Haeckel.
a. Sphæroidea.
antarcticum, Haeckel.
Cenosphæra solida, Haec kel.
Acanthosphæra antarctica, Haeckel.
papillata, Haeckel.
Cladococcus antarcticus, Haeckel.
antiqua, Haeckel.
dendrites, Haeckel.
antarctica, Haeckel.
Haliomma antarcticum, Haeckel.
Carposphæra nobilis, Ehrenberg.
Actinomma pachycapsa, Haeckel.
Thecosphæra diplococcus, Haeckel.
Pityomma piniferum, Haeckel.
Cromyosphæra antarctica, Haeckel.
Cromyomma perspicuum, Haeckel.
Styptosphæra spongiacea, Haeckel.
Rhizosphæra trigonacantha, Haeckel.
Spongoplegma antarcticum, Haeckel.
antarctica, Haeckel.
Spongodictyon antarcticum, Haeckel.
b. Prunoidea.
Amphisphæra neptunus, Haeckel.
Cromyocarpus quadrifarius, Haeckel.
Stauracontium antarcticum, Haeckel.
Cromyatractus tetraphractus, Haeckel.
