40
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
extended into the Atlantic; the coasts of Europe as far as Flanders, the British Islands,
and the coasts of Africa as far as Cape Bojador take definite form and are well drawn.
CATALAN
The most remarkable of these compass-charts is known as the Catalan chart, now
CHART, 1375.
preserved in the National Library of Paris. It is a map of the world in six sheets,
dated 1375, and is at once a planisphere and a marine chart. The author was a pilot
of the island of Majorca. It indicates, in particular, the new islands discovered in the
Atlantic and the coasts of the Caspian, and shows the greatest progress in the representa-
tion of the Indian Seas. It is on this Catalan chart that India appears for the first
time as a peninsula, and the Indian Ocean is no longer a Mediterranean as had been
previously represented. The coast of Africa is not limited towards the south, as
delineated by Ptolemy and the Arabs."
These charts are works of positive geography from their exactness, and they surpass
in this respect the other like productions of the same time, whether maps of the world,
planispheres, or written descriptions. In spite of their correctness, however, these
portulani cannot be considered true scientific charts. It may be said that an exact
knowledge of the coasts of the sea preceded that of the inland portions of the continents
and large islands. Almost all peoples in the infancy of their civilisation possess graphic
representations of their coasts, which may be regarded as not differing greatly from those
possessed by the sailors of the period now under consideration. From the ancient
Mexicans, Cortes received charts which enabled the Spanish navigators to find their way
along the Mexican coasts; Parry discovered the Strait of Fury and Hecla by directing
his course according to a chart drawn by an Esquimaux woman ; Ross and M'Clintock,
like Parry, made use of charts furnished them by the Esquimaux. However, the
compass-charts added greatly to the knowledge of the forms of seas and oceans; the
scientific element awanting in them is compensated for by the scrupulous correctness
by which they are distinguished.
THE RENAISSANCE A revolution took place through the Renaissance. Learned Greeks arrived in Italy
-MIDDLE OF
FIFTEENTH
after the capture of Constantinople in 1453, and the introduction of paper permitted
CENTURY. the great geographical works of antiquity to be popularised. From the end of the fifteenth
century planispheric representations without graduation were abandoned, and, after a
lapse of a thousand years, maps were once more constructed on mathematical principles.
The re-appearance of Ptolemy's Geography with its clearly drawn maps produced a
profound effect in Western Europe. Nordenskiöld ? says that when this great work was
imported from the expiring Byzantine Empire in the fifteenth century it had the effect
of an important discovery, which seized on men’s minds at first with even more force
1 On one of these maps, made by Andrea Biancho in 1448, H. Yule Oldham thinks America (the Brazil coast)
is represented, but this, like all the evidence for pre-Columbian voyages, except the Norse, is extremely unsatisfactory
(see Proc. Roy. Geog. Soc., Nov. 1894).
2 Nordenskiöld, A. E., Facsimile-Atlas to the early history of Cartography, with reproductions of the most
important maps printed in the 15th and 16th centuries ; translated from the Swedish original by J. A. Ekelöf and
C. R. Markham, p. 9, Stockholm, 1889.
