SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
663
STATION 175.
Antedon breviradia, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 170.
acutiradia, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
basicurva, n.sp. (?).
Fragments; obtained also at Station 170.
inæqualis, n.sp. (?). One specimen; obtained also at Stations 170 and 174.
OPHIUROIDEA (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14).
Ophiacantha placentigera, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Ophiambix aculeatus, n.g., n.sp. Obtained at no other locality. Only species of
the genus.
Ophiogeron edentulus, n.g., n.sp. Obtained also at Station 76. Only species of
the genus.
Ophiohelus pellucidus, n.g., n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
ISOPODA (Beddard, Zool. pt. 48).
Janira abyssicola, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Glyphocrangon acuminata, n.sp. Twenty-two specimens ; obtained at no other
locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Minute starfish (young stage), fragment of worm, Patella-like shell and two small
Gasteropods.
Excluding Protozoa, about 50 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at
this Station, belonging to about 16 species, of which 11 are new to science, including
representatives of 3 new genera; 6 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed during the examination of the deposit from this Station; the pelagic species,
which make up nearly 80 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are
marked thus X
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
var. murrhyna, Schwager.
Miliolina auberiana (d'Orbigny).
venusta (Karrer).
Rhabdammina abyssorum, Sars.
Reophax nodulosa, Brady.
Haplophragmium glomeratum, Brady.
Testularia quadrilatera, Schwager.
Bulimina contraria (Reuss).
subteres, Brady.
Bolivina karreriana, Brady.
nobilis, Hantken.
Cassidulina subglobosa, Brady.
Chilostomella ovoidea, Reuss.
Lagena fimbriata, Brady.
lævigata (Reuss).
