SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
511
numerous than the pelagic species, yet the individuals are relatively very few in number, Station 157.
the list having been compiled from the examination of a very large quantity of the
deposit. While the shells of the pelagic forms are very small when compared with those
found in tropical areas, on the other hand, the Miliolidæ, Astrorhizidæ, Lituolidæ, and
other bottom-living forms are represented by very large and beautiful forms. Some
specimens of Miliolina are one-eighth of an inch in diameter; specimens of Reophax
and Rhabdammina are over an inch in length. Among the arenaceous species there are
many interesting illustrations of the mode in which these Rhizopods select and arrange
the various particles in the deposit to form their tests. Astrorhiza crassatina here forms
its test almost exclusively of the spherical Radiolarian Cromyosphæra antarctica ;
Storthosphæra selects the finest mineral particles, with an occasional larger particle of
quartz or palagonite; one form selects only the shells of the pelagic Foraminifera, and
another only the smallest Diatomaceæ ; Reophax nodulosa makes use of many large
Coscinodisci, arranging them flatways over the surface, and Rhabdammina abyssorum
forms its tube of the larger angular fragments of quartz, felspar, magnetite, and other
mineral particles.
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Hormosina ovicula, Brady.
var. murrhyna, Schwager. Ammodiscus charoides, Jones and Parker.
irregularis, d’Orbigny.
Trochammina pauciloculata, Brady.
ringens (Lamarck).
Webbina clavata, Jones and Parker.
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
hemisphærica, Jones, Parker, and Brady.
Miliolina circularis (Bornemann) (?).
Cyclammina cancellata, Brady.
fichteliana (d'Orbigny).
Verneuilina pygmæa, Egger.
oblonga (Montagu).
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
seminulum (Linné).
Clavulina communis, d’Orbigny.
venusta (Karrer).
Pleurostomella brevis, Schwager.
Keramosphæra murrayi, Brady.
(1) sp.
Astrorhiza crassatina, Brady.
Cassidulina bradyi, Norman.
Pelosina rotundata, Brady (?).
crassa, d'Orbigny.
Storthosphæra sp. (?).
subglobosa, Brady.
Bathysiphon filiformis, Sars ().
Lagena alveolata, Brady.
Hyperammina vagans, Brady.
botelliformis, Brady.
Rhabdammina abyssorum, Sars.
globosa (Montagu).
Rhizammina algæformis, Brady.
lævigata (Reuss).
Reophax adunca, Brady.
lævis (Montagu).
difflugiformis, Brady.
Nodosaria communis, d’Orbigny.
nodulosa, Brady.
Vaginulina linearis (Montagu).
pilulifera, Brady.
Cristellaria convergens, Bornemann.
8corpiurus, Montfort.
crepidula (Fichtel and Moll).
Haplophragmium latidorsatum (Bornemann). Polymorphina angusta, Egger.
turbinatum, Brady
thouini, d'Orbigny.
Placopsilina vesicularis, Brady.
Uvigerina asperula, Czjzek.
Thurammina albicans, Brady ().
pygmæa, d'Orbigny
compressa, Brady.
x Globigerina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
papillata, Brady.
var. triloba, Reuss.
99
X
