44
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
PORTUGUESE IN
EASTERN SEAS.
CAPTURE OP
MALACCA.
SPANISA
EXPLORATIONS.
Hope, and in May 1498 arrived at Calicut. Before twenty years had passed away
the Portuguese pilots had mapped out the hydrography of the Indian and Chinese seas
sufficiently for the first requirements of navigation. The circumnavigation of Eastern
Africa was completed; the Red Sea as well as the Persian Gulf were recognised; the
peninsula of India was drawn in its true form, as well as the transgangetic peninsula ; and
lastly, a great part of the archipelagoes extending from Sumatra to the Moluccas and New
Guinea were visited. If it be remembered that these seas and shores were, we might say,
absolutely unknown in Europe at the time Gama passed the south of Africa, and if we
recall the incorrect representations given on Ptolemy's map and the maps of the fifteenth
century, we shall appreciate the immense additions that the Portuguese made in so short
a time to the map of the world, more particularly to the oceanic charts.
When in 1511 Albuquerque carried Malacca by storm, a new centre of operations was
created in the extreme east. Portuguese vessels radiated from thence in all directions
through the archipelagoes of Oceania and towards the coasts of China. The coasts of
Sumatra and Java were surveyed; the Sunda and Philippine Islands, Japan, Borneo,
Celebes, and the north-west of New Guinea were explored.
The voyage of Columbus in 1492 was only the first step towards the discovery of the
New World ; it took many years and many voyages to complete the discovery of America.
Other expeditions, official and clandestine, crossed the Atlantic in rapid succession.
While the Cabots and the Cortereals explored the coasts of North America from Labrador
to Florida, Columbus visited many of the West Indian Islands and the north coast of
South America. Pinzon and Solis with Vespucci landed at Honduras, and coasted
around the Gulf of Mexico ;' Pinzon explored the coast of South America to 8° south ;
and Cabral was accidentally driven on the coast of Brazil in 1500, and explored from 12°
to 16° south. This landfall of Cabral is interesting as showing that, even without
Columbus, the discovery of America could not have been long delayed.
It has generally been held that Columbus lived and died in the belief that he had
reached the Asiatic continent. We know that during his second voyage he made his
crew affirm before a notary that Cuba was a part of Asia, and that as late as 1503
he wrote to the Spanish sovereigns that he had reached the province of Mango, near
Cathay. In going west he believed he was approaching the mysterious realms of
Prester John. Harrisse has, however, produced documentary evidence that some of
Columbus's companions and contemporaries, nay even Columbus himself, had clearly
recognised, as early as 1501, that the coasts of the New World were not the coasts of
THE CABOTS.
1
1 Varnhagen and Fiske appear to have satisfactorily explained the mystery about the first voyage of Vespucci ;
he sailed with Pinzon and Solis as pilot and cosmographer in 1497, explored the coasts of Honduras and Florida, and
returned in October 1498 by way of Bermudas with 222 slaves on board (Varnhagen, Amerigo Vespucci : son caractère,
ses écrits (même les moins authentiques), sa vie et ses navigations, Lima, 1865, and Le premier voyage de Amerigo
Vespucci définitivement expliqué dans ses détails, Vienna, 1869 ; Fiske, The Discovery of America, chap. vii., London,
1892).
