SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
93
considers this interpretation much more probable, supported as it is by the fact that many
Radiolarians and Diatoms live at the surface. M'Donald of H.M.S. “Herald” had
recently found some of these forms in the stomachs of pelagic Mollusca, but Huxley
doubts very much whether these heavy Globigerinæ could maintain themselves in the
surface water. The third hypothesis supposes these organisms to live in deep water, and,
while not expressing a decided opinion on the matter, Huxley seems to prefer the last
hypothesis, concluding by saying : “I abstain at present from drawing any positive
conclusion, preferring rather to await the result of more extended observations.”
During the years 1857 to 1859 the Austrian ship “Novara,” under the command “Novara.”
of B. von Wüllerstorf-Urbair, completed a circumnavigation of the world. The expedition
was accompanied by Hochstetter as geologist, and by zoologists and botanists, who made
large collections and many important observations. Although the expedition engaged in
no special deep-sea investigations, the meteorological and physical observations were most
important. The results of the expedition have been published in a splendid series of
volumes by the Austrian Government."
In 1860, H.M.S. “ Bulldog” was despatched by the British Government for the
paratory survey of the route for the telegraph cable between England and America ; Dr.
G. C. Wallich, who accompanied the expedition, gives an interesting account of his Wallicu's
observations. He shows how little foundation there is for the objections urged against OBSERVATIONS
deep water being habitable ; after weighing the facts connected with the chemical ATLANTIC.
composition of sea-water, he devotes some space to the study of carbonic acid in the
ocean, its origin, use, and distribution. He deduces from his various observations on
Radiolarians, Diatoms, and Foraminifera, that carbonate of lime and silica are always
present in sea-water, that the quantity of carbonic acid increases with the depth, and that
the solvent power of water on these two bodies is due to the presence of carbonic acid.
He is of opinion that, while the carbonate of lime is present in such minute quantity on
the surface or on the bed of the deep sea as to be inappreciable by chemical analysis,
extensive calcareous deposits are nevertheless formed in a continuous manner. He
believes that pressure, far from restricting the development of animal life to the
upper zones of the sea, may be considered as one of the essential conditions of life
in great depths. Wallich examines the influence of light on the distribution of PHYSIOLOGY OF
marine species, remarking that the want of light in very deep water produces the inverse Deep-Sea Life.
phenomenon to that which fixes carbon in the plant and separates oxygen from carbonic
acid. He concludes from his observations that organised beings living in the abysses of
the ocean are descended from species living originally in shallow water ; he believes that
the Starfishes, &c., brought up from the greatest depths were caught alive in their natural
1
Reise der Oesterreichischen Fregatte Novara um die Erde in den Jahren 1857, 1858, 1859, sixteen volumes, 4to.
Wien, 1861 to 1875 ; see also R. v. Scherzer, Reise der Oesterreichischen Fregatte Novara um die Erde, Wien, 1866.
? Wallich, North Atlantic Sea-Bed, London, 1862.
