732
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
ARAFURA SEA,
Rhomboidichthys angustifrons, n.sp. (Station 188); obtained at no other locality.
spilurus, n.sp. (Station 188); obtained also at Philippines.
Arnoglossus aspilus, Bleeker. (Station 188); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Læops parviceps, n.g., n.sp. (Station 190); obtained also at Station 163A. Only
species of the genus.
Brachypleura novæ-zealandiæ, Günther. (Stations 188 and 190); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Synaptura zebra, Bl. (Station 190); obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
arafurensis, n.sp. (Station 190); obtained at no other locality.
Cynoglossus kopsi, Bleeker. (Station 190); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Cnidoglanis nudiceps, n.sp. (Arafura Sea); obtained at no other locality.
Saurus intermedius, Agassiz. (Arafura Sea) ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Atlantic.
Saurida grandisquamis, Günther. (Arafura Sea); obtained at no other locality.
Monacanthus penicilligerus, Çuv. (Station 188); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
filicauda, n.sp. (Station 188); obtained at no other locality.
Tetrodon nigropunctatus, Bl. (Station 190); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Gobius sp. (?), young. (Station 190, from log of wood in the trawl).
;
;
In addition, the Station-book records a large Echiurid.
In the foregoing list 282 species are enumerated, of which 102 are new to science,
including representatives of 15 new genera; 75 of the new species and 6 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere..
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The bottom fauna of the Arafura Sea is rather poor ;
there are no large shells nor Crustacea. Corals and fishes seem to be richly developed,
and to have an Indian facies. Among the animals obtained I found a Gephyrean, which
was of great interest to me, and the anatomy of which I closely examined. Its total
length was 62.5 mm., width 23 mm., length of proboscis 12.5 mm., length of ovaria
15 mm., length of excretory organs 28 mm. The mouth was a sort of pouch formed by
the short proboscis, which had a slit with fimbriated edges on its inferior surface. The
mouth led into a muscular oesophagus, and this again into a folded intestine, which at its
end received two very long excretory organs. The longitudinal muscles were well
developed, seven bands being clearly visible externally. On the ventral anterior surface
.
