188
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 30.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE SURFACE.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports
from the North At ntic, April 1873, and from the gulf-weed, south of Bermuda :-
CIRRIPEDIA (Haek, Zool. pt. 25).
Lepas anserifera, Linné. From gulf-weed.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Sergestes edwardsii, Kröyer.
Latreutes ensiferus (M.-Edwards). From gulf-weed.
Hippolyte bidentatus, n.sp. From gulf-weed.
Palæmon natator, M.-Edwards. From gulf-weed.
BRACHYURA (Miers, Zool. pt. 49).
Neptunus (Neptunus) sayi, M.-Edwards. From gulf-weed.
Nautilograpsus minutus (Linné). From gulf-weed.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Teleoteuthis caribbæa (Lesueur), Verrill.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pts. 6 and 78).
Psenes cyanophrys, C.V. From gulf-weed.
Antennarius marmoratus, Günther. From gulf-weed.
Exocoetus spilurus, Günther. From gulf-weed.
affinis, Günther (?). From gulf-weed.
Syngnathus pelagicus, Osbeck. From gulf-weed.
Moseley writes : “We are at last amongst large patches of the gulf-weed.
From the deck at noon patches, some nearly half an acre in extent, were to be
seen on the surface in every direction. The bright yellow of the weed contrasts most
beautifully with the deep blue of the sea. The sea was perfectly filled with Oscillatoriaceæ
of the usual two forms, fasciculate and globular. These little bodies reflect light strongly,
and from the deck the water appeared as if full of small particles of mica in suspension.
Separated floats of Sargassum, covered with white Membranipora, were floating about
on the surface in considerable quantities, and were puzzling to make out from a distance.
“I went with Murray to overhaul some of the weed-beds. We got plenty of shrimps
and crabs, of which the weed is full, also two small Cephalopods and some small (young)
flying fish. The whole of the animals in the gulf-weed have acquired in their colouring
a most remarkable protective resemblance to it. The crabs and shrimps are of a yellow
colour exactly like that of the weed, and have markings of white which represent the
Membranipora constantly present upon its surface. The largest shrimp has a dark
