152
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Station 13.
Polyzoa (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Farciminaria delicatissima, n.sp.
Obtained also at Stations 14, 64, 68, 89,
and 106, 1850 to 2700 fathoms.
Bifaxaria reticulata, n.g., n.sp. Two or three fragments; obtained also at
Station 68, 2175 fathoms.
Salicornaria magnifica, n.sp. Obtained also at Stations 122, 157, and 323, 350 to
1950 fathoms.
Tessaradoma boreale (Busk). Obtained also at Station 23, 450 fathoms. Recorded
from North Atlantic and Arctic.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Terebratula sp. (?). Two fragments (too incomplete for identification).
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-An
undescribed Sponge looking like a Polyzoon, three specimens of Leda sp.(?), and
three specimens of a Gasteropod allied to Solarium.
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates were procured at this
Station, belonging to about 10 species, of which 5 are new to science, including re-
presentatives of 3 new genera; one of the new species was not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The fine red Decapod got in the dredge does not differ in
character from the Astacidæ family, except in having pairs of claws on all the legs, the
Astacidæ having them only on three pairs. The shrimp obtained seems to be allied to
Palæmon.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22). The following species of Foraminifera
were observed during the examination of the deposit at this Station (see also Murray and
Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.); the pelagic species, which make up about 88
per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina gracilis (d'Orbigny) (?).
seminulum (Linné).
venusta (Karrer).
Pelosina rotundata, Brady ().
Rhizammina algæformis, Brady.
Haplophragmium emaciatum, Brady.
Trochammina trullissata, Brady.
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
Valvulina fusca (Williamson).
Virgulina subsquamosa, Egger.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
parkeriana, Brady.
subglobosa, Brady.
Lagena apiculata, Renss.
desmophora, Rymer Jones.
formosa, Schwager.
, longispina, Brady.
orbignyana (Seguenza) ().
quadricostulata, Reuss.
truncata, Brady.
Nodosaria communis, d'Orbigny.
--
