98
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
death of Professor Bailey the examination of the deposits devolved upon Pourtalès. In
the deposits from off the American Coast from Cape Cod to Florida he found two well-
marked varieties :) siliceous and calcareous. The siliceous deposits stretch along the
coast as far as Cape Florida. The calcareous deposits are divided into Coral and Fora-
miniferous ? formations, and are found at the greatest depths, at the southern point of
Florida, and off Cuba and the Bahamas. Pourtalès remarked the coincidence between
the limits of the siliceous deposits and the course of the cold current, and of the calcareous
deposits and the warm current. He also distinguished a muddy deposit of much less
extent, which he considered quite subordinate ; it was observed off the eastern part
of Long, Block, and Martha Islands. He considered this deposit as related to the
Tertiary formations, some traces of which appear on Gay Head Reefs, Martha's Vine-
yard, and other localities in Massachusetts. The deposits in shallow water off the
American coast are sandy, principally quartz grains, with a few grains of hornblende,
felspar, and sometimes glauconitic, but the grains of glauconite may be derived from the
disintegration of the geological strata. In these sandy deposits he observes that the
Foraminifera are distributed in zones, sometimes overlapping: thus the zone nearest the
shore from 10 to 20 fathoms is relatively poor, containing only a few small Polystomellæ ;
then Miliolina is met with in small numbers at about 40 fathoms; Truncatulina
advena is found from 25 to 70 fathoms; Marginulina and Cristellaria begin at about
35 fathoms and extend down to over 1000 fathoms. From a depth of 60 fathoms the
sand becomes mixed with Globigerinæ, which increase to such an extent that at a depth
of 100 fathoms the shells are as abundant as the sand grains, marking the commencement
of the calcareous deposit.
LOUIS AGASSIZ In connection with the laying of a telegraph cable between Cuba and Florida, explora-
ON THE POURTALÈS
PLATEAU.
tions were begun in 1867, and continued for two years, occasionally under the personal
supervision of L. Agassiz. The coral reef was found to be closely confined to the
coast of Florida, for the large reef-building Corals only acquire their full development
near the surface, not extending below 10 fathoms. The fauna inhabiting the reef con-
sists of a large number of animals of all classes, and is totally different from that of the
deep sea. From the reef the bottom is muddy down to 50 or 60 fathoms, and is covered
with dead Mollusca and triturated fragments of Corals, with few living animals. Then
follows a rocky plateau, which Agassiz calls the Pourtalès Plateau, down to 100 and
occasionally 200 fathoms, the bottom being a calcareous conglomerate with Molluscs and
Corals. The Foraminiferous deposit is found in the Florida Strait at moderate depths,
at points where the rocky bottom is hidden. Pourtalès observes that this calcareous
1 Report of Superintendent of U.S. Coast Survey for 1869, pp. 220-225, Washington, 1872.
· Pourtalès claims that this Globigerina Ooze, one of the most important of oceanic deposits, was first observed in
1853 by Lieutenants Craven and Maffitt during their investigation of the Gulf Stream in connection with the U.S. Coast
Survey ; it was subsequently noticed during the preliminary survey of the route for the Transatlantic cable.
* From the Greensand of New Jersey (Pourtalès in Rep. U.S. Coast Survey for 1869).
