28
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Marinus of TYRE. concerning the ocean must be pointed out. Marinus of Tyre? rejected the opinion
of his immediate predecessors, and maintained that the habitable world was not
surrounded by the waters of the ocean. He held that the continental masses were united
to other similar masses still unknown, and that the Atlantic and Indian Oceans were
separated from each other. Nor does he appear to have admitted the existence of a sea
to the east of Asia ; he attributed to that continent an indefinite extension towards the
east. It is difficult to conjecture the reasons which induced Marinus to abandon the wiser
and more correct views of Eratosthenes on these fundamental points of geography.
PTOLEMY.
Ptolemy? adopted the views of Marinus, and his great authority gave them a
scientific stamp. Ptolemy was an astronomer, and treated physical geography as of
secondary importance. In commencing his first books he described geography as being
essentially the art of tracing the map of the world in the literal sense assigned by
etymology to the word geography.“ (See Plate IV.).
The greater part of Ptolemy's works is taken up by the tables containing the
materials which served him in the construction of his maps. In projection he was far
PTOLEMY's Views in advance of his predecessors, and first used the words latitude and longitude as purely
technical terms. Following Marinus, he rejected the hypothesis of an ocean extending to
the east of the Asiatic continent; he regarded that great land-mass as stretching inde-
finitely towards the north and east. Africa was likewise extended without any settled
limitation towards the south. Eratosthenes, Hipparchus, and even Strabo, did not know
that the east coast of Africa turned suddenly to the south-west beyond Cape Aromata ;
they believed that the shores of the regions which produced myrrh and incense extended
as far as India. Ptolemy adopted this notion, although the merchants of Aden had
informed him of the true position of the coasts as far south as Zanzibar. He united
the point where the land appeared to him to trend towards the east, by unknown lands,
to the Chinese coasts. The Indian Ocean thus formed a great enclosed sea. This
Southern Ethiopia remained on maps down to the time of the second voyage of James
Cook.6 As we have just seen, Ptolemy's conception of the morphology of the ocean
differed from that held by many of his predecessors. With Ptolemy disappeared the
great geographers of antiquity.
CONTINENTAL AND Two principal views prevailed among the ancients regarding the distribution of land
OCEANIC THEORIES and water. The school that may be called Homeric—to which Eratosthenes and Strabo
TION OF LAND and belonged--considered the three continents of the Old World as forming a single island
surrounded by the ocean. On the other hand, the adherents of what may be called the
Ptolemaic school—to which Hipparchus and Marinus of Tyre belonged—did not admit
ON THE MORPHO-
LOGY OF THE
OCEANS.
5
OF THE DISTRIBU-
WATER.
i Flourished probably about 120 A.D.
2 Flourished about the middle of the second century A.D.
3 Ptolemy, i. sec. l.
+ “Ptolemæo geographia est ars delineandi tabulas geographicas.” See Wildberg, cited by Bunbury, op. cit., vol.
ii. p. 548.
6 Cape Guardafui.
6 1772 to 1775 A.D. (see Peschel, Geschichte der Erdkunde, p. 61, Leipzig, 1877).
