24
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
LEVEL OF THE
OCEAN.
from rivers is not transported to great distances, for matter in suspension is arrested by
the movements of the sea ; the bed of the ocean is not, in consequence, filled up so rapidly
as one would think, but the places near the coasts are loaded with sandy materials, and it is
there that the greatest modifications take place. Finally, he attributed to winds an active
part in the changes taking place at the surface of the globe. To the combination of
all these forces he attributes what has since been called the sculpturing of the continents.
As to the form of the oceanic basins and the relief of the bed of the sea, he believed
that there were valleys and mountains as on emerged land. All the seas which
are united together, and all the parts of the great ocean which surround the known
world, have the same level, the surface of their waters is spherical, and the centre of
this sphere coincides with the centre of the earth ; this notion cannot but be regarded
as a great advance on that of Eratosthenes, who asserted that not only different seas but
His Views ON THE certain regions of the same sea had different levels, which latter view is now believed to
be true to a certain extent, although Eratosthenes did not prove it. Strabo believed
that this equilibrium was only established after the Black Sea and Mediterranean had
burst their barriers, in the manner described by Eratosthenes and Strato. The
continuous current flowing from the Black Sea through the Bosphorus chiefly induced
him to adopt this theory, but he rejected the view of those writers who argued that the
sediment brought to the Pontus Euxinus by rivers could have any considerable
effect in filling up that sea and causing it to overflow. In speaking of waves, Strabo
points out that whatever their force may be, it increases as the waves approach
the shore—this recrudescence of the wave on the coast does not depend on the force
of the wind, for the phenomenon takes place in a calm or with the wind off
shore. He likewise points out the relation between the length of the coast-line of a
country and its area, and the influence of this purely geometrical fact on civilisation,
whose first instrument of transmission is the sea. It is somewhat odd that Strabo makes
no mention of currents in the Mediterranean, although these are sufficiently pronounced
in some instances. Strabo suggests that besides the world known to the Greeks and
Romans, other continents or other worlds might yet be discovered inhabited by different
races of men. Enough has been said to show the remarkable correctness of the
observations and views of this celebrated Greek; many of them approach the concep-
tions of modern geology, and have been confirmed by modern research. (See Plate IV.)
HIPPALUS. THE Strabo does not appear to have been acquainted with Hippalus, an Egyptian
MONSOON WIND.
navigator, who lived about the same time, and proved the regular alternations in the
direction of the monsoons of the Indian Ocean, and profited by the discovery to open up
a route across the high seas between the shores of the Red Sea and India. The monsoon
1
Strabo, i. 4, ii. 5.
2 Peripl. Maris Erythræi, 57, ed. Müller ; Pliny, Hist. Nat., vi. 23, sec. 100; Vivien de St. Martin, Le Nord de
l'Afrique dans l'antiquité, p. 269, Paris, 1863.
