SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
525
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books (March 9 and 10):— Station 159.
Foraminifera, Diphyes, Physophorid, Apolemia (?), Sagitta, Cypridina, Nauplii of a
Cirriped (Archizoëa gigas, Dohrn), Hyperia, Phronima with house and
young,
Primno
macropa, Euphausia, Sergestes, Zoëæ, Atlanta, and Appendicularia.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The warm-water animals were in greater number on the
surface; there were five specimens of Pyrosoma, nearly every one of which had eggs but
no embryos. There was a Nauplius with a carapace like the cap of a Madeira peasant
with many spines, 3 mm. in length; it belongs to Euphausia, of which Metschnikoff
has figured a similar larva (Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. xxi. p. 396, pl. xxxiv., 1871),
but not with such a striking form. There were many adult Euphausiæ on the surface.
Phronima was taken with its house ; Claus has shown that the house is a young Pyrosoma
in which Phronima establishes itself in order to feed on the Tunicata. He has found all
stages, from the Pyrosoma just recently attacked by the Amphipod to those soft remains in
which it has been taken by us. Preparations made by us show that the tissues of these
houses have the same histological structure as Pyrosomata when treated in the same manner.
Sergestes, which we have not taken since leaving the Cape, was present at the surface. A
little Amphipod, always taken on the surface during our Antarctic cruise, I find now to
be Primno macropa, which was discovered by Guérin-Ménéville near Chili, and which
appears to be circumpolar. There were two beautifully transparent Cephalopoda
apparently belonging to the genus Loligopsis.”
Moseley writes : "The surface fauna is changing; on the night of the 9th the sea
was full of Pyrosomæ, and the wake of the ship lighted up wiss chem. Moreover,
several pieces of Durvillea have been met with, and one piece covered with barnacles
caught on the log; hitherto the sea has been remarkably free from floating weed. This
Durvillea probably came from St. Paul's and Amsterdam Islands, since these islands lie
in the direct course of the South Indian connecting current which, sweeping almost
directly eastwards, joins the South Australian current. On the night of the 10th
Pyrosoma was again abundant. On the evening of the 11th there were no Pyrosomæ .
at the surface, but a slight scintillating phosphorescence from the Copepods, and I saw
a piece of Durvillea float past. Phronima, while in its house with its young, moves
the whole about by protruding its tail from the end and working it.”
Station 180 (Sounding 264), Termination Land to Melbourne (see Chart 24 and
Diagram 10).
March 13, 1874 ; lat, 42° 42' S., long. 134° 10' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 52°:0; mean for the day, 51°6.
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.-1893.)
67
