SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
565
>
i
Modiola glaberrima (Dunker). (6 to 15 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by PORT Jacksos.
the Challenger. Recorded from Sydney.
Modiolaria lanigera (Dunker). (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
cumingiana, Dunker. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia and
Red Sea.
varicosa, Gould. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Sydney.
cuneata, Gould. (6 to 15 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from the Cape.
Lima multicostata, Sowerby. (2 to 18 fathoms); obtained also at Stations 56
and 172.
angulata, Sowerby. (2 to 7 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Panama, Bay of Carracas,
Philippines, and Port Lincoln.
(Limatula) bullata (Born). 2 to 10 fathoms); obtained also at Station 162.
Pecten (Janira) fumatus, Reeve. (2 to 18 fathoms); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Patella alticostata, Angas. (6 to 7 fathomıs); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
tramoserica, Martyn. (6 to 7 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
Emarginula (Tugalia) parmophoidea, Quoy and Gaimard. (2 to 10 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Australia and New Zealand.
(Hemitoma) rugosa, Quoy and Gaimard. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained
at no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded
from Australia and Tasmania.
(Scutus) anatina (Donovan). (6 to 15 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Australia
Haliotis nævosa, Martyn. (2 to 15 fathoms); obtained at no other locality, by the
Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
Trochus (Clanculus) clangulus, Wood. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia
and Tasmania.
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.-1893.)
72
