14
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
VOYAGE OF
PYTHBAS TO
BRITAIN
who, at that distant period, had determined the latitude of Massilia with such exactitude,
that twenty centuries afterwards Gassendi found it correct to within a few seconds. It
is probable that the knowledge which Pytheas possessed in astronomy recommended
him to his fellow-citizens as the chief of this expedition, the object of which was to
rediscover the sources of the riches brought from distant parts by the Phænicians and
Carthaginians. Not only did Pytheas succeed in his mission, but his cruises yielded
much new information concerning the ocean. A second expedition was sent to explore
the coasts of Africa under another scientific man, Euthymenes. The records of this
voyage are almost wholly lost, but it was reported that Euthymenes reached a river
where crocodiles and hippopotami were seen in great numbers."
Pytheas sailed round Spain and France to Britain. He appears to have traced out
a considerable part of the east coast of Britain and to have visited the German coast on
the other side of the North Sea. He brought home accounts of the land, six days' sail
beyond Britain, named Thule, a name which he first introduced into ancient geography.
He stated that the sea beyond Thule became thick and sluggish, like neither land nor
sea, but resembling the substance of the jelly-fish, called Pulmo marinus, which he had
himself seen; in this description we have the first hint as to the conditions prevailing
in Arctic Seas. He is said to have recorded as a fact that the length of the day at
Thule was twenty-four hours at the summer solstice, from which he conceived it as lying
under the Arctic circle, or parallel of 66° N. The Phocæan explorer likewise brought
home accounts of the amber coasts, but it does not appear that these accounts, or those
concerning Thule, rested on personal observation, or justify us in following those authors
who extend the journey of Pytheas to the coasts of Lapland and the Baltic.
Of the two works which Pytheas wrote, his first, a description of the ocean, has not
been preserved; it contained his observations on the north-western countries and on the
icy sea. The second, which bears the title of Periodus or Periplus, contains his voyage
to the amber coasts of the Baltic, and has been partially preserved in Pliny, Strabo, and
Polybius. Ancient writers do not appear to have been altogether just in their
estimate of the learned Massilian. Many of his facts were regarded as being deficient in
exactness; the same was said of the observations of Herodotus and Marco Polo, but at
the present day the critic has vindicated these observers. There is no doubt that before
the time of Pytheas the chart of the seas to the west of Europe was almost a blank, and
that down to the time of Strabo it retained the form given it by Pytheas. He was the
first investigator of the Atlantic, and by the extent of his observations, as well as by the
nature of his researches, the voyages of Pytheas may be considered as true scientific
3
Athenaeus, ii. 87.
2 As a matter of fact, this sea is, in addition to jelly-fish, sometimes so encumbered by gelatinous masses of Diatoms
that fishermen find it impossible to work their nets.
3 Elton, Origins of English History, chap. ii.; Rhys, Celtic Britain, London, 1882; Markham, Geogr. Jour., vol. i.
p. 523, 1893.
