SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
327
STATION 103.
At 6.45 A.M. shortened and furled sails, and got up steam to sound. At 7.30 A.M.
sounded in 2475 fathoms. At 9 A.M. took a series of temperatures down to 500 fathoms.
At 10.15 A.M. completed observations, and made all plain sail.
St. Paul's Rocks distant at noon, 738 miles. Made good 145 miles. Amount of
current 23 miles, direction N. 38° W.
Surface Organisms. The following species are recorded from the surface-net sent ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
down to 100 fathoms :-
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phronima pacifica, Streets.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Sergestes oculatus, Krøyer.
During the day the tow-net was sent down to a depth of from 80 to 100 fathoms,
and, though it could only have been at that depth for a short time, a great many
animals were obtained which were not to be found in the surface water.
There was a
great abundance of Globigerinæ, a few Pulvinulinæ, many species of Radiolaria,
Peridinium, small Medusa, Sagitta, Hydrophanes (for the first time), Saphirina and
other Copepods, Hyperia, Pterotrachea, Pteropods, Cranchia, young Pyrosoma,
Appendicularia, Fritillaria, Doliolum.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: “From a depth of 100 fathoms the tow-net, after having
been out only a very short time, brought up a quantity of those animals taken at the
surface only at night, while the tow-net dragged at the surface for a considerable time
brought in very little. This shows clearly that certain animals live during the day at a
depth of 100 fathoms, and come to the surface only at night. Other forms, however, not
taken to-day, but which have been taken in abundance at night, must live during the day
probably at still greater depths. Among the worms was a very transparent Hydrophanes,
hitherto observed only a few times by Krohn and Claparède ; the latter has given an
excellent figure of the Mediterranean species, Hydrophanes krohnii, from which the species
taken to-day differs somewhat in the form of the bristles of the antennæ, is somewhat
older, and is possibly only a variety or the opposite sex. The worm is interesting as
being a connecting link between the Phyllodoceans and the Alciopeans; it is an Alciopa
with simple eyes, or one might say that Alciopa is only a Phyllodoce with very big eyes,
and that it is quite unnatural to make a separate family for it. Anyhow it is very
interesting to find a Phyllodoce with ordinary eyes deviating from all the other bottom-
living members of the family in the extreme transparency of its tissues and glands at
the base of the feet. The genus Hydrophanes is besides distinguished by immense
bacilliparous glands opening, as I have found to-day, into the pharynx, and by two ciliatory
sacs on each side of the head, which can be inverted and then look like ciliated tentacles.
Such retractile ciliated organs are known in several Annelids, and I have recently shown
their presence in Glycera alba. They may perhaps be compared physiologically with
