552
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 163A.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Candace pectinata, Brady.
Icotopus arcurostris, n.g., n.sp.
Oncæa obtusa (Dana).
Diaphoropus versipellis, n.g., n.sp.
Zoontocaris galatheæ, n.g., n.sp.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Oodeopus serratus, n.g., n.sp.
Euphausia latifrons, n.sp.
On the night of April 3, off Cape Howe, the sea was luminous, and two hauls of the
tow-net procured :-Brown Medusæ, Diphyes, Beroë, Ostracodes, Saphirina and other
Copepods in quantities, Hyperia, Phronima, Squillerichthus, Euphausia, Lucifer,
Sergestes, Zoëæ, Styliola, Cleodora [ = Clio), Appendicularia, and fish eggs in large
numbers.
AT PORT JACKSON. The Challenger remained at Port Jackson, Sydney, from 3 P.M. on April 6 till
7.30 A.M. on June 12, 1874 (for description of Sydney see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i.
pp. 454-463). While at Sydney the specimens collected during the southern cruise were
catalogued and carefully packed by Mr. Murray, and despatched to England in 65 boxes
and 10 casks.
On the morning of June 3 the ship proceeded out of the harbour with a party
of visitors on board, including the principal scientific and naval men of Sydney, and
when 6 or 7 miles from the entrance to Port Jackson a sounding was taken in
35 fathoms (Station 163B), and the dredge and trawl were lowered several times in
from 30 to 40 fathoms, most of the specimens brought up belonging to the Port Jackson
fauna. In the afternoon the ship returned and anchored at the entrance of Sydney Cove,
At 3.30 P. M. on June 8, the ship left Port Jackson, but the same night and following
day such bad weather was experienced that it was found impossible to sound as
proposed for the telegraph cable, and in consequence the ship returned and anchored
in Watson's Bay on the evening of June 9. The weather continued unfavourable
during June 10 and 11, the expedition finally leaving Port Jackson on the morning of
June 12.
During the stay Mr. Murray conducted many dredgings from the steam pinnace
within the Heads of Port Jackson. The following species are recorded in the Zoological
Reports from the shore and from shallow water in the neighbourhood of Port Jackson,
the depth given in the Reports being indicated :-
ANIMALS FROM
PORT JACKSON.
KERATOSA (Poléjaeff, Zool. pt. 31).
Spongelia spinifera, Schulze. Two specimens (7 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Adriatic.
Psammopemma densum, Marshall. One specimen (7 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 49.
