EDITORIAL NOTES.
ix
sea,
completion of the official publications in the same style as that in which
they had hitherto appeared. This sum has been the only payment from
Government funds in connection with the Challenger Expedition during
the past six years :--the price of each volume of the Report has been
fixed so as to repay the expenditure of Her Majesty's Stationery Office for
printing, provided that the whole edition of seven hundred and fifty copies
be sold.
The present volumes complete the official publications on the Scientific
Results of the Expedition. They contain a historical review of the progress
of Oceanography, a summary account of the observations and results
obtained at each of the Challenger observing stations at lists
illustrating the geographical and bathymetrical distribution of marine
organisms, and an index of the genera and species described or recorded
in the Report.
Two important special memoirs which, owing to unavoidable delay in
preparation, could not be published in the Zoological and Physical series are
appended to these summary volumes. The first is a Memoir by the Right
Hon. T. H. Huxley and Dr. Paul Pelseneer on the rare Cephalopod Spirula,
one specimen of which was procured by the Expedition. The second is a
Memoir by Dr. Alexander Buchan on Oceanic Circulation, which is accom-
panied by an extremely interesting series of maps showing the specific gravity
and temperature of the ocean at different depths.
The several special Memoirs on Zoological, Physical, and Chemical subjects
which make up the larger part of the Challenger Report were published
separately, and in volumes, as soon as completed, with very
little attempt
at any systematic arrangement. It will be seen on reference to the follow-
ing list that the whole Report is now bound up in a series of Fifty large
Royal Quarto Volumes containing about twenty-nine thousand five hundred
pages, illustrated by over three thousand lithographic plates, copper plates,
charts, maps, and diagrams, together with a very large number of wood-
It was originally the intention, on the completion of the Report,
to print new title-pages, with instructions for rebinding the several series of
Memoirs in systematic order. This intention has been abandoned after con-
sultation with many scientific authorities. Fourteen years have elapsed since
the first volumes were published, and in scientific literature there are so many
cuts.
