SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
495
STATION 152.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Trochus (Margarita) brychius, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Bathydraco antarcticus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the
genus.
In addition to the foregoing, the Station-book records :-Large specimen of Clymenia(?)
with tube, and Discina.
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 12 species, of which 10 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera; 6 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
Surface Organisms.-— The following species are recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Station :-
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zcol. pt. 37). TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Euphausia antarctica, n.sp.
Salpa runcinata-fusiformis, Chamisso-
Cuvier.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Diatomaceæ, small
Globigerinæ, Radiolaria (including very fine specimens of Aulosphæra elegantissima,
as well as Astrocapsa stellata), Ctenophoræ, Medusæ, Diphyes, larva of Chirodota (?),
Alciopa, Tomopteris, Sagitta, Copepods (Calanids), Hyperia, Primno, Pteropod, and
Appendicularia.
Moseley writes : “I saw two whales about the ship about 6 A.M.; they were light
brown on the back, and light on the belly. The dorsal fin was small, hooked backwards,
and placed far back near the tail. They were probably the “sulphur bottoms” of the
whalers. They often showed the heads well, and there seemed to be a hump at the fore-
head. The whole back was often shown, the fin appearing very late. I saw also the
somewhat elongated oval snout and blow-holes plainly. The reflection of light from the
bodies of the animals lighted up the water around them as they swam submerged. They
followed the ship a while, but did not turn flukes.”
Station 153 (Sounding 257), near Antarctic Ice (see Chart 23 and Diagram 9).
Station 153.
February 14, 1874 ; lat. 65° 42' S., long. 79° 49' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 33°:0; mean for the day, 32°.5.
