SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
79
91
.
Corallines, and a quantity of sand, mud, and small stones. Ross's deepest dredging
was made at 10 A.M. on the 11th August 1841, in lat. 33° 32' S., long. 167° 40' E., when
the dredge was let go in 400 fathoms ; after being dragged along the ground for half an
hour, it was hauled on deck, and found to contain some beautiful specimens of Coral,
Corallines, Flustræ, and a few Crustaceous animals.” The reflections of the accomplished
leader of the expedition are extremely significant, but so completely had Ross's researches
faded from memory, that twenty years after they were made, the fact of living creatures
being found under 400 fathoms of water was hailed as a great discovery. Yet Ross,
referring to his dredgings in 1841, says :—“It was interesting amongst these creatures
to recognise several that I had been in the habit of taking in equally high northern
latitudes ; and, although contrary to the general belief of naturalists, I have no doubt
that from however great a depth we may be able to bring up the mud and stones of the
bed of the ocean, we shall find them teeming with animal life; the extreme pressure at
the greatest depth does not appear to affect these creatures ; hitherto we have not been
able to determine this point beyond a thousand fathoms, but from that depth several shell-
fish have been brought up with the múd.” ?
From the fact that the same species were to be found towards both poles, and that MIGRATION OF
these animals are very sensitive to a change of temperature, he suggested that it would
FROM ONE POLAR
be possible for them to pass from one frigid zone to another, provided the temperature of REGION TO THE
the intervening sea bottom had a range not exceeding 5° F. Ross's observations con-
firmed his idea that the temperature at the bottom of the open sea was uniform in all
latitudes, and subsequent investigations prove this, generally speaking, to be correct.
Sir James Ross was an indefatigable zoological collector, but it is to be regretted
that the large collections of deep-sea animals, which he retained in his own possession
after the return of the expedition, were found to be totally destroyed at the time of his
death. Had they been carefully described during the cruise or on the return of the
expedition to England, the gain to science would have been immense, for not only
would many new species and genera have been discovered, but the facts would have been
recorded in journals usually consulted by zoologists, instead of being lost sight of as
was the case. A large number of zoological drawings made by Hooker during the
Antarctic cruise were recently handed to the various naturalists engaged in working up
the Challenger collections, and show that some of the Challenger discoveries had been
anticipated by Ross.
Humboldt addressed a letter to Lord Minto, First Lord of the Admiralty, with
MARINE ANIMALS
OTHER SUGGESTED.
1 Antarctic Voyage, p. 207.
Ibid., vol. i. pp. 202, 203. The organisms dredged from 2400 feet by J. C. Ross were examined by Stokes and
Forbes, who found small corals, fragments of shells, two articulations of a small fossil (?) Pentacrinites, a spine of Cidaris,
fragments of Echinus, a small broken Cerithium, a fragment of Cleodora, and a few rock fragments. Besides these
organic remains Foraminifera were very plentiful belonging to the genera Textularia, Nodosaria, &c. (see Wallich
op. cit., pp. 80, 81).
