SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
155
STATION 147.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Culeolus perlucidus, n.g., n.sp. Three specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Fungulus cinereus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the
genus.
Bathyoncus mirabilis, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Pharyngodictyon mirabile, n.g., n.sp. Six specimens ; obtained at no other
locality. Only species of the genus.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus armatus, Hector. Three specimens ; obtained also at Stations 146, 157,
158, 246, and 271.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Primnoa, Sipunculid, Balanoglossus, Chalaraspis ungnifera [= Eucopia australis),
and several Nudibranchs.
Excluding Protozoa, about 200 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 89 species, of which 73 are new to science, including
representatives of 28 new genera ; 35 of the new species and 6 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ To-day's haul was still richer than yesterday's, and
included many typical deep-sea forms. An Amphipod was found in the new Crinoid, a
larger specimen of which was taken closely attached to a Pycnogonid. Among the
worms I found an animal apparently belonging to the northern genus Terebellides, one
species of which (Terebellides stroemii) ranges to the Baltic, and is one of the animals
looked upon by Lovén as evidence that the Baltic was formerly closed towards the North
Sea and communicated with the northern icy sea. A small Sipunculid was found in a
tube made up especially of Sponge spicules bound together by mud. Large reddish
fragments of a Balanoglossus were taken, in one of which the collar was preserved.
They were similar to those obtained in the deep sea of the tropics, where the head was
also present. The complete animal must have been 3 to 5 inches in length and nearly
three-quarters of an inch across the body. The most interesting things were among
the Schizopods. There was a female of Chalaraspis, which seems to be the commonest
representative of the group in deep water, also numerous females and two males of a new
species of Petalophthalmus, the females of which are much larger than those of
Petalophthalmus armiger and the breeding lamellæ much shorter. The main difference
is in the males ; in the first-described species the male was described as having very big
inner antennæ, mandibular palpi, maxillipeds, and first gnathopods, all of which were
transformed into seizing organs, as in an Ostracode or Phyllopod. In this species such is
