480
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
KERGUELEN.
Isopods were quantities of Serolis, old and young in all stages of development, a few
specimens of the Tanais taken on the 17th, and males and ovigerous females of Praniza
(Anceus), showing hardly any differences from the species studied by Dohrn at Plymouth
and described by Spence Bate in his British Sessile-Eyed Crustacea ; Amphipods were
represented by several small species, and a large one distinguished by a bright-red process
at the front of the carapace, containing, under a simple chitinous layer, pigment arranged
in hexagons (I could discover no trace of bodies entitling them to be called eyes, of
which they were very probably the rudiments); of Cumacea a little Cuma was very
abundant, in the males of which the second antennæ seem to remain in the same state
of development as in the female. Except the Schizopod already mentioned, not a single
member of the higher stalk-eyed Crustacea was taken, and probably no others exist here
in shallow water. Three specimens of a Raia, not mentioned in Günther's Catalogue
of Fishes, were also obtained.”
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
The following species of Foraminifera and Diatoms were observed in the deposits off
Kerguelen in 20 to 120 fathoms (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits
Chall. Exp.) :-
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The only pelagic species is Globigerina
bulloides.
Nubecularia inflata, Brady.
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
elongata, d'Orbigny.
ringens (Lamarck).
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina bucculenta, Brady.
circularis (Bornemann).
oblonga (Montagu).
seminulum (Linne).
Articulina funalis, Brady.
var. inornata, Brady.
Ophthalmidium inconstans, Brady.
Cornuspira involvens, Reuss.
Technitella legumen, Norman.
Saccammina sphærica, Sars.
Hyperammina vagans, Brady.
Rhabdammina discreta, Brady.
Reophax ampullacea, Brady.
dentaliniformis, Brady.
diflugiformis, Brady.
scorpiurus, Montfort.
spiculifera, Brady.
Haplophragmium canariense (d'Orbigny).
glomeratum, Brady.
Ammodiscus charoides (Jones and Parker).
gordialis (Jones and Parker).
schoneanus, Siddall.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
subglobosa, Brady,
Lagena acuta (Reuss).
distoma, Parker and Jones.
gracillima (Seguenza).
interrupta, Williamson.
lævigata (Reuss).
lævis (Montagu).
lineata (Williamson).
marginata (Walker and Boys).
quadricostulata, Reuss.
semistriata, Williamson.
squamosa (Montagu).
staphyllearia (Schwager).
stelligera, Brady.
striata (d'Orbigny).
sulcata (Walker and Jacob).
Nodosaria calomorpha, Reuss.
communis, d'Orbigny.
Vaginulina legumen (Linne).
Cristellaria cultrata (Montfort).
