36
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
TION.
Saltness of the humidity, the greater part of which has been dried up by fire, and the surplus has been
SEA-EVAPORA-
transformed under the influence of heat. Others allege that the whole of the primitive
humidity, having been submitted to the devouring action of the sun in its revolutions, all
the pure parts have been removed, and the present ocean is merely a saline and bitter
residue. There are others who assert that the sea is simply the secretions which flow
down from the earth scorched by the heat of the sun during its constant revolutions.
Some believe that the sea is nothing else than the primitive humidity separated from all
coarse and terrestrial principles, just as fresh water mixed with ashes loses its sweetness
and retains a saline taste even after it has been filtered. It is also supposed that in
water the fresh and salt parts were mixed, and that the sun volatilised the fresh portions
because of their subtility, be it that it absorbs these parts itself, be it that once arrived
in high regions where cold condenses them and gives them, so to speak, a new form, they
change a second time into water. It is held that water being an element, the molecules
which are found in the air and under the action of cold have a soft taste, while the.
molecules which remain on the land take up a bitter flavour under the influence of the
heat which penetrates them. Several learned men have held that the mass of water which
flows into the ocean either from the surface of the soil or from subterranean passages,
having once arrived at that vast reservoir, has absorbed everywhere the saline principles
which the earth discharges into it. It is not to be wondered at, then, that the water of the
sea preserves always the same weight and bulk, since the subtile parts, which heat removes,
change again into dew and water whence arise mountain streams, which fall into rivulets
and ponds and flow into the wet places of the land, until they arrive, at last, in the
great whirlpool of the ocean. It is thus that absolutely none of the water is lost, and
springs are like machines which, drawing water from a river, return it to a rivulet that
passes it again to the river. . . . . . It is evident, from experience, that all humid
matters endowed with a certain relish, having passed through the retort and still, preserve
in their sublimate the same smell and taste, like vinegar, date wine, rose saffron, gilly-
flower water, except, however, saline substances, which change the taste and smell,
especially when they are submitted twice to the operation of fire and the still.”
INDICATIONS OF A
It will be seen from this quotation, which may be regarded as a correct résumé of
TRUE SCIENTIFIC
the knowledge of the Arabs on this matter, that Masóūdī possessed exact notions about
the phenomena of evaporation, the formation of rain, and, in general, on the aërial
circulation of water, and on the saltness and conservation of the same in marine basins.
This exposition is, no doubt, disfigured by errors; it lacks precision and definiteness,
but the principles expressed are true, and prove the relative state of advancement of
Arabian philosophy. In the closing sentences of the above passage the author explains
the phenomena of nature by comparison with those which take place in the laboratory.
This is, as Peschel has noted, one of the first occasions on which we meet with this truly
1 Masóūdi, op. cit., tom. i..ch. xiv. pp 277–280.
721
METHOD.
