xxxviii
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
At many stations representative of different regions and depths
of the ocean, very complete lists of Diatoms, Radiolaria, Foraminifera,
and Pteropods, are furnished both from the collections taken in the
surface-nets, and from the deposits at the bottom. Had it not been for
the space they occupy, similar lists might have been inserted from many more
stations. The lists of Diatoms have, in the great majority of cases, been
supplied to me by Mr. Thomas Comber from an examination of the surface
gatherings and the samples of deep-sea deposits. The lists of Foraminifera
have been prepared from an examination of my own preparations, and from
collections selected from the desposits by Mr. Frederick Pearcey, assistant to
the naturalists on board the Challenger, and for several years an assistant in the
Challenger Office, but I have also made use of a manuscript note-book which
belonged to the late Mr. H. B. Brady. The lists of Radiolaria from the
surface waters and from the deposits have been supplied to me by Professor
Haeckel and Dr. Dreyer from a study of the Challenger collections.
The station summaries are preceded by a historical introduction in which
I have endeavoured to trace, and with the aid of a series of maps to illustrate,
the gradual development of our knowledge concerning the ocean from
the dawn of history down to the time of the Challenger Expedition. For
assistance and advice in this portion of the work I desire to acknowledge my
indebtedness to the late Professor W. Robertson Smith, to Dr. J. Sutherland.
Black, Mr. George Murray, and especially to my colleague Professor A.
Renard, in collaboration with whom notes concerning the progress of
knowledge bearing on Oceanography were collected seven or eight years ago
for our joint work on Deep-Sea Deposits; many of these notes have been
made use of in writing the Historical Introduction to these volumes.
The station summaries are followed by lists setting forth the geographical
and bathymetrical distribution of the animals captured in the various
trawlings and dredgings. Many theoretical considerations are suggested by
these lists and the observations set forth in the body of the work, but for
various reasons I have in this place merely indicated in the concluding
paragraphs the nature of some of these interesting speculations.
This summary account of the observations and scientific results of the
Challenger Expedition is brought to a close by a complete index of the
genera, sub-genera, species, and varieties of marine organisms captured at
