SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
195
three Sponges (only two given above), Gorgonoid, Antipathid, Clypeastrid, and frag. Station 33.
ments of an unknown Sea-urchin.
Excluding Protozoa, over 80 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this Station,
belonging to about 70 species, of which 22 are new to science, including representatives
of 3 new genera ; 12 of the new species and 1 new genus were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “In the dredge were obtained two forms of Serpula, one of
them in pellucid tubes, and fragments, 2 inches long, of a worm apparently belonging to
the
genus Lumbrinereis; this, however, could not be made out, as the head was wanting
in both specimens. A Brachyurous Decapod has the last joint of the fifth pair of legs
enlarged, and two spines on the carapace ; it is apparently closely allied to the crab
always got in the gulf-weed.”
The following species of Pteropoda, Heteropoda, Foraminifera, and Diatoms were
observed in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea
Deposits Chall. Exp.) :
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Limacina inflata (d’Orbigny).
triacantha (Fischer).
lesueuri (d'Orbigny).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
Peraclis reticulata (d'Orbigny).
bispinosa, n.sp.
Clio (Creseis) virgula (Rang).
„ ) acicula (Rang).
Clio (Hyalocylix) striata (Rang).
» (Styliola) subula (Quoy and Gaimard).
» Pyramidata, Linné.
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Cavolinia trispinosa (Lesueur).
quadridentata (Lesueur).
longirostris (Lesueur).
inflexa (Lesueur).
(
HETEROPODA (Smith, Zool. pt. 72).
Atlanta peronii, Lesueur.
inflata, Eydoux and Souleyet.
lesueuri, Eydoux and Souleyet.
Atlanta souleyeti, Smith.
fusca, Eydoux and Souleyet.
inclinata, Eydoux and Souleyet.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species are marked thus x:-
Nubecularia lucifuga, Defrance.
Miliolina linnæana (d'Orbigny).
Biloculina ringens (Lamarck).
oblonga (Montagu).
var. denticulata, Brady.
pulchella (d'Orbigny).
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
reticulata (d'Orbigny).
Spiroloculina acutimargo, Brady.
trigonula (Lamarck).
crenata, Karrer.
Articulina conico-articulata (Batsch).
excavata, d'Orbigny.
funalis, Brady.
Miliolina circularis (Bornemann).
lineata, Brady.
ferussacii (d'Orbigny).
sagra, d'Orbigny.
gracilis (d'Orbigny).
sulcata, Reuss.
insignis, Brady.
Cornuspira foliacea (Philippi).
»
