324
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Station 101.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Cystisoma spinosum (Fabricius). Two specimens; for distribution see Station V.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Gennadas parvus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; for distribution see Station 45.
Polyzoa (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Bugula reticulata, n.sp., var. unicornis, nov. Many specimens; for distribution
see Station 68.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Sternoptyx diaphana (Herm.). One specimen (probably from near the surface);
obtained also at Stations 106, 107, 159, 171, 214, 218, and
235, 500 to 2150 fathoms. A widely-distributed species.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Two specimens; for distribution see Station 23.
Astronesthes niger, Rich. Two specimens (probably from near the surface); obtained
also April 28, 1876, in the North Atlantic. A common
pelagic form in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
Nemichthys infans, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 121, 500 fathoms.
Recorded subsequently from West Indies. In the stomach
of this specimen was a red deep-sea prawn.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Fragment
of Sponge, many worm-tubes, Sipunculus, anterior part of large Balanoglossus, Caridid
shrimp and five species of Peneid shrimps, one with parasitic worm (only one shrimp
reported above).
Excluding Protozoa, about 70 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this Station, belonging to about 20 species, of which 8 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera; 1 of the new species was not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: "The trawl brought up a fine lot of animals, among which
the shrimps were the most conspicuous, some being of a fine red colour and considerable
size. There were in all nine individuals belonging to six species, one a true Caridid, the
others belonging to the Peneid family. One of the specimens had been attacked by a
long worm, which was very lively when I first saw it, and was rolled up in the shrimp
like a Gordius in a Locusta. As the worm was afterwards seen to separate from the
shrimp, it had probably only attacked the shrimp after death. Among the worms was a
fragment of Balanoglossus, which had probably been of considerable length, but owing
to the extreme softness of the tissues, only the anterior part came into our hands. It
was distinguished by very lively colours, the head being yellow, the collar-like ring bright
red, and the body yellowish red. Two longitudinal folds of the body are the outer walls
of the branchial apparatus, and between them the so-called median vessel, while the lower
