viii
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Expedition, and that a temporary Government department, with a small
annual grant, should be created, the duty of which should be to direct the
discussion of the physical and biological observations, the examination of the
collections, and the publication of the scientific results, so far as these had
a bearing on the science of Oceanography. It was arranged that the whole
of the Official Report on the Scientific Results of the Expedition should be
published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, and that the typical collections
should be ultimately deposited in the British Museum. Sir C. Wyville
Thomson was appointed director of this temporary Government department,
and I became the first assistant.
These arrangements took effect in the spring of 1877. Shortly after-
wards Sir C. Wyville Thomson's health unfortunately broke down; he
continued in ill health until his death in March 1882, and delay was
thereby caused in the progress of the work. But the style of the publications
had been settled by him, a considerable part of the collections had been
sent to Naturalists for examination and description, and a few Zoological
Memoirs were published before 1882. Sir Wyville Thomson had not
been able, however, to decide on any definite and complete scheme with
reference to the scope of the Report as a whole, nor was he able to under-
take the preparation of any manuscript in connection with the Narrative
of the Voyage and the special Zoological Memoirs he had himself proposed
to write.
After I succeeded to the direction in January 1882, the work connected
with these publications was carried on in consultation with a Committee
of the Royal Society. During the six succeeding years, rapid progress was
made with the investigations and memoirs dealing with the observations
and collections of the Expedition, forty-six volumes, containing the Narrative
of the Cruise and a large number of special memoirs having in this interval
issued from the
press.
In the year 1889 Her Majesty's Treasury declined to ask Parliament
to renew the annual grant for the continuation of the work relating to the
scientific results of the Expedition, the time estimated for the completion
of the publications having expired. However, after some correspondence,
in which I offered to finish the Report at my own expense, the Govern-
ment agreed to set apart the sum of sixteen hundred pounds for the
