EDITORIAL NOTES.
xi
case at least have not covered actual expenditure in connection with
the work of the Expedition.
The great difficulty in carrying through an undertaking of this nature
arises from considerations of time. The researches of the specialist tend
ever to become more elaborate : in no case were the authors of the larger
Special Reports able to terminate their work within the original estimates as
to time and bulk. The limitations in reference to expenditure imposed on
me by the Government often rendered it imperative to curtail the in-
vestigations, and to cut out matter from the Memoirs when in other
circumstances I would gladly have fallen in with the views of contributors
and collaborators.
The care exercised in all the arrangements connected with these publica-
tions is indicated by the fact that every Special Memoir which was commenced
has been completed and published. The plan and proportion of the several
parts of the Report have been largely determined by the complicated and
changing conditions under which the work has been carried on, and this in
turn accounts for an apparent want of unity in the contents of the volumes as
issued from the press during the past fourteen years. Great care has been
taken to insure accuracy in statement and to make the Report, in the first
instance, a faithful record of the observations, investigations and scientific
results immediately bearing on the work of the Expedition. The researches
and publications connected with the Expedition might have been extended
in several directions with advantage to science had the allotted time and funds
permitted ; as it is, a few collections have not been thoroughly examined,
and some observations have not been fully discussed.
In June, 1872, I was appointed one of the naturalists of the Challenger
when the Expedition was being fitted out. During the past twenty-three years
my time has been wholly taken up with the work of the Expedition and in
the study of those subjects which the Expedition was organized to investigate.
The direction of the whole of the work connected with the publication of the
Scientific Results passed unexpectedly into my hands, and I have done my
best in the circumstances to place on permanent record a trustworthy account
of the labours of this famous Expedition. It has been my earnest endeavour
to complete the publications in a manner worthy of the naval position and
scientific reputation of this great Empire. Notwithstanding the troubles,
