94
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
The only
DEPTHS.
habitat. Rhizopoda are more or less abundant in all seas, but the genus Globigerina
may be regarded as essentially belonging to the deep sea, for it is found in all latitudes
and at all depths; the point of its maximum development is in the greatest depths, where
deposits made up of its dead remains stretch out for hundreds of square miles, forming
probably deep beds. He endeavours to trace a connection between the Globigerina
Ooze and the Gulf Stream, pointing out that the shells are abundant in the deposits be-
tween the Faroe Islands and the east coast of Greenland, and in a large portion of the
direct line between Cape Farewell and Rockall, but are absent or rare in the deposits be-
tween Greenland and Labrador. In the southern hemisphere calcareous deposits had
been found on the Agulhas Bank at a depth of 90 fathoms, in which the Globigerina
shells made up 75 per cent. of the sediment; he suggested that the area covered by this
deposit depended on the current flowing round the Cape from the east.
difference between the deposit in this and in other parts of the Atlantic is that the shells
are more delicate in form, perhaps because the water is not so deep. He was unable to
find in a tow-net dragged through nearly 700 fathoms of water a single Globigerina shell,
and therefore concludes that they live on the upper surface of the deposit at the bottom.
DISCOVERY OF
Wallich attaches great importance to the discovery of members of the higher groups
HIGHER ORGAN- living at a depth of 1260 fathoms, about half-way between Cape Farewell and the north-
ISMS IN GREAT
west coast of Ireland. On examining the visceral cavity in a specimen of Ophiocoma, he
noticed a number of Globigerina more or less broken, amorphous particles, a few yellow
oil globules, and several ova. In three deep soundings he found Annelid tubes composed
almost entirely of small Globigerina shells, and in another case composed of minute
calcareous debris and Sponge spicules in equal proportions. Ophiocoma granulata, found
off the British and Scandinavian coasts in 10 to 50 fathoms, and off the coast of Green-
land in 200 fathoms, was obtained from a depth of 1260 fathoms, without presenting any
sensible modification, while the well-known littoral species, Serpula vitrea and Spirorbis
nautiloides, were brought up from a depth of 680 fathoms. Wallich asks the questions :
Whence did these creatures originate? are we to regard the localities in which they were
found as their genetic centres, or only as isolated colonies tenanted by species whose
genetic centres are to be looked for elsewhere ? and in answering them he adopts the ideas
of Forbes on the great changes which have taken place in the distribution of land and water
during geological periods, supposing the submergence of a large tract in high latitudes of
the North Atlantic. He says : “No proof of subsidence could be more complete, no proof
of the truth of the doctrine of single specific centres more convincing, than the detection
under such circumstances of a colony of acclimatized Star-fishes, belonging to a species
typical of the Boreal province, well known to range from the confines of the Arctic circle
to our own shores, and already shown to have accommodated themselves to a depth of
200 fathoms without variation ; whilst the fact of subsidence being general throughout
the whole area is rendered probable by the discovery of sessile Annelids, also belonging to
