334
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 106.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Melamphaës robustus, n.sp. One injured specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Melanocetus murrayi, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 348, 2450
fathoms.
Sternoptyx diaphana (Herm.). One specimen (probably from near the surface);
for distribution see Station 101.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Two specimens ;
for distribution see Station 23.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Branched Rhizopods, two red fragments of Balanoglossus, which show that the whole animal
must have been at least half a foot in length, many specimens of Chalaraspis ungnifer
[ = Eucopia australis, Dana), and many Hydroids attached to the spines of Salenia.
Excluding Protozoa, about 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 38 species, of which 28 are new to science, includ-
ing representatives of 7 new genera ; 13 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the tow-nets sent down
to 40 fathoms :
Eupronoë intermedia, n.sp.
Oxycephalus porcellus, Claus.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
Euchæta prestandreæ, Philippi.
Corycæus speciosus, Dana.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Sergestes longispinus, n.sp.
oculatus, Krøyer.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Phronimella elongata, Claus.
Platyscelus serratulus, n.n.
Thyropus danæ, n.sp.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Clio (Creseis) virgula (Rang).
Cavolinia longirostris (Lesueur).
On August 25 to 27, hauis were taken each day with the tow-net in depths of 40 to
100 fathoms, always with good results, and specimens obtained of Oscillatoriaceæ Diatoms,
Vorticellæ on Diatoms, Coccospheres, Pyrocystis, Peridinium, Foraminifera (Pulvinulina,
Orbulina, Sphæroidina, Globigerina, Pullenia), Radiolaria, Siphonophoræ (including
three species not previously observed), Brachiolaria, Alciopa, Tomopteris, Hydrophanes,
Saphirina and other Copepods, Typhis, Oxycephalus, Phronimella, Phronima (young;
the adults probably live in deeper water as they always came up in the trawl, seldom
in the tow-net), Lucifer, Pterotrachea, Oxygyrus, and Cranchia.
