SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
617
Willemoes-Suhm writes : "On the pinnulæ of the Comatulæ we found Myzostoma Stations 170
AND 170A
under rather peculiar conditions. Some of the pinnulæ had enlarged by excrescence and
were rolled up so as to form a cavity, in which, in two cases, a larger and smaller
Myzostoma were found. This reminds me very much of Trematodes, which, like
Monostomum faba in the skin of birds, live always in cases or sacs in pairs, one
individual being much larger than the other, the one acting probably as a male and the
other only as a female; this leads in some cases, as in Distomum okeni on the branchiæ of
Brama rayi, to a perfect diversity of sexes. Perhaps there is something very similar in
Myzostoma, which is hermaphroditic and has many affinities with the Trematodes.
Among the higher Decapods there were an Alpheus, never got before in deep water, and
two males of a new species of Willemæsia [=Pentacheles euthrix]. This genus
has not
made its appearance since we left the Southern Atlantic, where in a depth of 1900 fathoms
we got Willemæsia leptodactyla, to which this new species is most closely allied,
differing from it in being smaller and in having two excisions of the red chitinous upper
layer of the carapace where one would expect to find the eyes. A very large-celled
Lepralia was observed on the pumice-stones.”
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
place
THE SURFACE.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).—Parasitic
on shark.
Pandarus cranchii, Leach.
satyrus, Dana.
Nogagus latreillii, Leach.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 58).
Halopsyche gaudichaudi (Souleyet).
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78).
Carcharias lamia, Risso.
Lirus porosus (Richards), (young).
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Diphyes, Corycæus,
Saphirina, and Pyrosoma.
Moseley writes : “A shark [Carcharias lamia] was caught; four or five small pilot
fish were about it. On it were numerous specimens of Caligus, a few of which again had a
Lepas on them often almost as big as themselves. The Caligi had a pink colouring matter,
giving an absorption band. On the shark being skinned I noticed that a layer of superficial
or skin muscles, only about 5 inch thick, was coloured dark red like mammalian muscle,
the main muscular mass being pale, almost white; this condition is comparable to that
in the marine Gasteropods. Murray, on going out in the dingey, met with floating sea-
weed, apparently a Fucus with large vesicles, like Fucus nodosus. In these masses were
a small fish (Lirus porosus) and numerous crabs (Nautilograpsus), mimicking the colour
