SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
106B
TIONS.
3
depth being 1985 fathoms. The expedition visited the Vestmanna Islands, Iceland,
Jan Mayen, Bear Island, Spitzbergen, the Faroe Islands, and reached a latitude of
80° N. Important observations were made bearing on meteorology, temperature,
currents, chemistry, marine zoology, and the contour of the sea-bed, and the reports on
the scientific results are published in both Norwegian and English in parallel columns
with numerous illustrations in the form of lithographic plates, maps, and woodcuts."
In the summers of 1881 to 1883 the Italian Government despatched the “Washing- Italian Expedi-
ton,” under Captain Magnaghi, to investigate by means of dredgings and temperature
" WASHINGTON.”
observations a portion of the western basin of the Mediterranean ; some valuable tempera-
ture results were obtained, and Professor Giglioli recorded the capture, in depths of from
300 to 1000 fathoms, of Crustaceans, Fishes, Brachiopods and Starfishes, closely allied to
those obtained by the Challenger and other expeditions at similar depths in the open
ocean. The results were considered important, as bearing on the previous observations
of Forbes and Carpenter. In the years 1882 to 1885 the “Vettor Pisani” circum- “Vettor Pisani."
navigated the globe, with Chierchia on board, who made interesting and extensive
collections of the pelagic fauna and flora, which have created much interest among
zoologists.
During the years 1880 to 1883 important series of deep-sea investigations were Frenou EXPEDI-
carried on by the French Government in the ships “ Travailleur” and “Talisman" in the
“ TRAVAILLEUR."
Bay of Biscay and the eastern parts of the Atlantic as far south as the Cape Verde
“ TALISMAN."
Islands. These explorations were carried out under the direction of a scientific commis-
sion, of which Professor H. Milne-Edwards was president, the other members being the
Marquis de Folin, Professors A. Milne-Edwards, Vaillant, Marion, Perrier and Fischer.
Dr Gwyn Jeffreys and the Rev. A. M. Norman took part in one of the excursions. The
important zoological and other results of these expeditions are now in course of publication
in a valuable series of memoirs prepared under the able direction of Professor Alphonse
Milne-Edwards, and issued under the auspices of the French Government."
Since the year 1885 Prince Albert the First, of Monaco, has carried out a series of Prince of
Monaco's EXPEDI-
most interesting observations on the currents of the North Atlantic by means of floats
sent off from his yacht the “ Hirondelle” at various positions and at stated times. The “HIRONDELLE.”
results of these experiments have been published on an elaborate chart. By means of
ingeniously arranged traps let down into comparatively deep water, the Prince has made
important zoological discoveries. These marine investigations are now being continued
in a new steam yacht, the “Princesse Alice,” which is probably the first ship especially
TIONS.
TIONS.
1 Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition, Christiania, 1880-1891.
· Enrico H. Giglioli, Prima Campagna Talassographica del R. Piroscafo “Washington,” Roma, 1881.
3 See G. Chierchia, Collezioni per studi di scienze naturali fatte nel viaggio intorno al mondo dalla R. Corvett
“ Vettor Pisani,” Roma, 1885.
* See Expéditions Scientifiques du Travailleur et du Talisman pendant les Années 1880, 1881, 1882, 1883, Paris,
1891, &c.
