74
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
against pressure, and consequently it came to be generally believed that in all open seas
the water below a certain depth maintained a uniform temperature of 39° F. right down
to the bottom. Ross lays special emphasis on the fact mentioned by earlier observers
that the temperature of the surface water falls rapidly as the depth of the sea diminishes;
he cites one instance when in a single day the temperature at the surface fell from 70° F.
where the depth was 400 fathoms, to 51°:5 where it was only 48 fathoms," a fact now
known to be of local, but not universal, occurrence, being apparently limited to
windward shores.
In 1843 Aimé introduced reversible outflow thermometers to ascertain the temperature
in deep water, but, although ingenious, they were not simple enough nor sufficiently
handy for ordinary observations. Maury about 1851 made some observations on the
temperature of the deeper waters of the sea. For this purpose he used cylinders made
of non-conducting material, discarding the ordinary thermometer with an index, as the
index might move during the ascent, or in great depths the thermometer might be broken
by the pressure; neither did Maury approve of Sexton's metallic thermometer with silver
or platinum spiral, which was very expensive; besides, he preferred simplicity in all
instruments intended for this branch of research. Commander Rodgers, of the U.S.S.
“ Vincennes,” made a few interesting observations on deep-sea temperature in the Arctic
Ocean in 1855.
FIRST USE OF
The first self-registering thermometer with bulb protected from pressure was made
use of by Captain Pullen in 1857, on board H.M.S." Cyclops.” Shortly after this time
MILLER-CASELLA, protected thermometers of the Six pattern (Miller-Casella),' and Negretti and Zambra’s
protected inverting thermometers, were introduced and improved in various ways. These
thermometers were employed during the “Porcupine ” and Challenger expeditions, and
are now universally used in deep-sea investigations with excellent results.
VIEWS AS TO
Péron, a French naturalist, who went round the world about 1805, and made many
TEMPERATURE OF
temperature observations, held that the bottom of the sea was covered with eternal ice,
OCEAN CIRCULA- consequently life was there impossible. Sir James Clark Ross, as we have said, believed
the temperature of the deeper water of the ocean to be 39° F., a belief shared by many
of his successors, apparently because it was thought that this was the temperature of
maximum density, as in fresh water, although Despretz and others had previously shown
that the maximum density point of sea-water and of salt solutions might be below zero
Centigrade. This view as to the temperature of deep water was supported by Leonardo
da Vinci, Lenz, Arago, and Humboldt, who maintained that circulation was produced in
the ocean by the heated and lighter water of the equator flowing to the poles over the
surface, while the colder and denser waters of the poles sank and flowed along the bed of
PROTECTED BULB.
NEGRETTI AND
ZAMBRA.
DEEP SEA AND
TION.
1 J. C. Ross, A Voyage of Discovery and Research in the Southern and Antarctic Regions during the years 1839–43,
London, 1847.
2 See Lee, Cruise of the Dolphin, Washington 1854. 3 See Thomson, Depths of the Sea, p. 289, London, 1874.
