SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
25
was
wind was called Hippalus in honour of this navigator. Coast routes, followed up to his
time, were abandoned, and a fresh impetus was given to voyages in oriental waters.
Pomponius Mela,' who belongs to the same epoch, gives a few details referring to the Pomponius Mela.
morphology of the ocean. He points out that four seas are, so to speak, deducted from
the great ocean that surrounds the world, and penetrate into the bosom of the land; the
Scythian Ocean thus forms the Caspian, arms of the Indian Ocean form the Persian and
Arabian Gulfs, and, lastly, a fourth sea runs into the land from the west, but is
designated by no special name. Up to this period the Romans had no other appellation
for the Mediterranean than that of Mare Nostrum.” Mela does not even employ the
name Mare Internum, which is sometimes met with in Pliny's writings. Solinus 3
the first to make use of the word Mediterranean. Mela refers to the existence of the
continent of the Antichthones, in the southern temperate zone, separated from the south
of Africa and Asia by the Ethiopian Sea, the Red Sea, and the Indian Ocean, but
inaccessible on account of the intervening torrid tract. This hypothetical continent
includes the island of Ceylon, and is, indeed, in a sense, an immense extension of that
island towards the west. (See Plate IV.).
The philosopher Seneca applied himself with ardour to the study of nature, and his FIRST CENTURY
seven books of Physical Investigations (Quæstiones Naturales) may be considered as Seneca.
presenting a general view of the knowledge of the ancients concerning the natural
sciences. He supposes that the world, at its origin, was a chaos, in which the elements
dissolved in the water separated out in the course of time. Igneous action, vigorous
at first, became extinguished finally, and there remained only water at the birth
of the actual world. He divides the waters of the globe into (1) oceanic waters,
which are from all eternity, and form the principal mass, the source from which all others
are derived; (2) subterranean waters, which circulate in the faults of the subsoil, and
appear at the surface in the form of springs ; (3) waters which circulate or remain stagnant
on the top of the soil ; (4) waters in the form of vapours disseminated in the atmos-
phere. He has very exact notions on evaporation, but he supposes that all the elements
can be derived the one from the other, and that water, in particular, may be derived
from earth. The course of the water in the air permits it to level the surface of the earth, SENECA'S VIEWS
and to work incessantly in pulling down that which the volcanic forces have built up;
ON EVAPORATION
AND CHEMICAL
although the action of this element is less striking than that of fire, its effect is not less Action of Water.
considerable. In virtue, especially, of its continuous action, water affects the solid bodies
which constitute the land by dissolving and disintegrating them and transporting them,
1 Flourished about 43 B.C.
2 “Id omne, qua venit, quaque dispergitur uno vocabulo Nostrum Mare dicitur” (i. sec. 6).
3 Flourished in the third century A.D.
4 Solinus, c. 24.
5 See Bunbury, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 353.
6 Born a few years B.C.
7 “Quod fiunt omnia ex omnibus, ex aqua aër, ex aëre aqua, ignis ex aëre, ex igne aër ; quare ergo non e terra fiat
aqua ?”
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.—1894.)
4
