X
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
references to the Memoirs in their present bindings, that any advantages to
be gained from rebinding would not make up for the inconveniences and
confusion thereby introduced. In order to facilitate reference to the several
Memoirs, a systematic list of the contents of the whole Report is
appended to these notes, as well as a list of the separate volumes and their
contents.
The completed Report contains Memoirs from seventy-six authors who,
for the most part, are natives of Great Britain and her colonies, but
scientific men of nearly all civilized countries are represented among the
contributors. In addition to the authors whose names appear on the title-
pages of the Special Memoirs, many other investigators have taken part in the
various physical and chemical researches, in the examination of the collections,
in the preparation of the illustrations, in the editorial work, and in various
other ways have contributed to the elaboration of the Scientific Results of
the Expedition.
From beginning to end the history of the Challenger Expedition is simply
a record of continuous and diligent work. There were few opportunities
for
any
brilliant exploits during the voyage. The daily and hourly magnetic
and meteorologic observations, the handling of the ship during the tedious
deep-sea investigations, the work connected with boat excursions and expedi-
tions on land, in addition to the usual operations of the marine surveyor and
navigator, all demanded from the naval officers and seamen an amount of
constant care and attention, far surpassing what is required during an ordinary
commission of one of Her Majesty's ships. The labour connected with
pre-
serving, cataloguing, and packing the biological and other collections on board
ship was enormous, so also was that involved in their subsequent examination
on the return of the Expedition, and their distribution to specialists in many
parts of the world. All this was, however, accomplished with success, and the
typical collections have now been deposited without any mishap in the British
Museum. The majority of the authors of the Special Memoirs have spent
years in the examination of the collections and in the preparation of
their manuscript and illustrations for the press, without other remunera-
tion than either a copy of the Challenger Publications or a small
honorarium to cover the outlay necessitated by their researches. The
payments to the Civilian Staff have been very moderate, and in my own
