142
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 3.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).—The following species of Pteropoda were
observed in the deposit from this Station :-
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
lesueuri (d'Orbigny).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
Clio (Styliola) subula (Quoy and Gaimard).
Clio pyramidata, Linné.
Cavolinia quadridentata (Lesueur).
inflexa (Lesueur).
5
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.— The following are recorded as having been obtained in the sur-
face tow-nets on this date :
ANNELIDA (M‘Intosh, Zool. pt. 34).
Halodora reynaudii, Andouin and M.-Edwards (?).
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67)
Phronimella elongata, Claus.
In addition, the following are mentioned in the note-books :—Collosphæra and
Acanthometra in enormous abundance on the very surface; small Medusæ, Agalma (with-
out air-bladder), Diphyes, Physalia, Velella; many Copepods, Thaumops pellucida
[= Cystisoma spinosum], large larva of Decapod, Ianthina, Pterotrachea, Hyalæa
[ = Cavolinia], Styliola, Octopus; Oikopleura.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “In the morning another specimen of Thaumops pellucida
was captured by the tow-net. It does not show the genital papilla nor the enlarged claw
of the fifth pair of legs; it seems to be a male, but is very much spoiled. The trawl
brought up a Phronimella elongata.”
Moseley writes : “I went out with Murray in a boat to search for surface animals.
The sun was shining brightly, yet I caught three Pteropods swimming in the most lively
manner on the very surface, so high as to break the water around them, and thus become
conspicuous. Radiolarians (Collosphæra, &c.), abounded in an astonishing manner, the
surface being in places quite full of them, and a single scoop of the net bringing up
thirty or forty. Sometimes they were aggregated into circular patches containing a dozen
or more, and at others attached to one another in strings of four or five; the majority
were free. Large Velellæ, Physalia, and Ianthina were abundant. I examined the
colouring matter of Ianthina with the spectroscope, and found that it gave a different
spectrum in acid and alkaline solutions. The flies first began to be troublesome to-day
and suddenly swarmed everywhere; they even accompanied Murray and me in our boat
excursion in such numbers as to be a pest.”
