SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
129
1
Station VIIP.
Odostomia turrita, Hanley. Obtained also at Station 122 (?), 350 fathoms. Re-
corded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean. Fossil
-Post-Tertiaries of Scotland.
Aclis mizon, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Eulima philippii, Weinkauff. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean.
Fossil-Post-glacial beds of Norway.
Bittium lacteum (Philippi). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger. Re-
corded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean. Fossil
- Middle Pliocene onwards.
reticulatum (Costa). Obtained also at Station 75, 450 fathoms. Re-
corded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean. Fossil
-- Upper Miocene of Middle and Southern Europe
onwards.
Triforis perversa (Linné). Obtained also at Stations 75 and 122, 450 and 350
fathoms. Recorded from North Atlantic and Mediter-
ranean. Fossil—— Upper Miocene all over Europe onwards.
Rissoa costulata, Alder. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger. Re-
corded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean. Fossil
- Middle Pliocene onwards.
similis, Scacchi. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger. Re-
corded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean. Fossil
-Pliocene of Calabria, Pleistocene of Sicily, and recent
clays of both.
(Alvania) canariensis, d'Orbigny, and var. of Manzoni. Obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Canaries and
Madeira.
( ) costata (Adams). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from North Atlantic and Mediterranean.
Fossil–Middle Pliocene onwards.
( ) leacocki, Watson. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Madeira.
(Onoba) striata (Adams). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Arctic, North Atlantic, and Mediterranean.
Fossil—Pleistocene of Britain and Norway.
(„) watsoni, Schwartz. Obtained at
other locality
Challenger. Recorded from Madeira.
(Cingula) glabrata (Mühlfeldt). Obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Mediterranean and Madeira.
no
by the
