SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
609
STATION 169.
;
Cadulus colubridens, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Nassa (Tritia) ephamilla, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Pleurotoma ischna, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
(Surcula) gypsata, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
(Genota) engonia, n.sp. (?). One specimen ; obtained also at
Station 232, 345 fathoms.
(Bela) ula, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
(Spirotropis) bulbacea, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Natica amphiala, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
(Amauropsis) apora, n.sp. (?). One specimen ; obtained also at Station 191,
800 fathoms.
Odostomia hyphala, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Utriculus (Tornatina) pachys, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus parallelus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 170A, 171,
232, and 235, 345 to 630 fathoms. Recorded subsequently
from Indian Ocean (“Investigator”).
serrulatus, n.sp.
Three specimens; obtained at no other locality.
Trachyrhynchus longirostris, n.sp. Two specimens; obtained at no other locality.
Bathygadus cottoides, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 170,
170A, and 171, 520 to 630 fathoms. Recorded subsequently
from Indian Ocean (“ Investigator") (?).
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Five specimens; for distribution see Station 23.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Stephanoscyphus, Polyps, Starfish, Sipunculus (?), Arca pectunculoides, and small
Polyzoon.
Excluding Protozoa, about 120 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 70 species, of which 58 are new to science,
including representatives of 9 new genera ; 38 of the new species and 3 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The trawl brought up a peculiar beautiful Actinian which,
according to Moseley who has made a drawing of it, belongs to the floating Minyadæ.
The small Campanularian, found at the last Station on the leg of a Nymphon, was to-day
taken parasitic on Limopsis. A fine head and half of the body of a Myriotrochus
was found in the trawl; only two species of this genus are known, from Greenland,
Labrador, and Polar seas. Among the Annelids were two fine specimens of a normal
