456
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 147.
not the case ; all these parts are of the ordinary size, the breeding lamellæ are, of course,
wanting, and the pleopods are stronger than in the female. There would be no male
character were it not for the presence of a pair of small styliform penes behind the last
pair of pereiopods, as in the higher Decapods. I have not been able to make out what
parts of the body are used in this transformation, as the pleopoda, the first pair of which
assumes this function in the Macrura, seem to be normal in size and number. This
species will be described as Petalophthalmus inermis [= Boreomysis scyphops]. The
same modification of male characters was found in another Schizopod taken to-day, in
which the pleopoda were fully developed ; the gills, however, were absent, and the number
of ambulatory pereiopoda was the same as in the Mysidæ, so that it may be regarded as a
very aberrant Mysid near Petalophthalmus, connecting that genus with the rest of the
Schizopods. I think I shall call it Crozetia mysidiformis [= Amblyops crozetii]. The
large size of the Fusoid reminds one of the dimensions attained by certain groups of
animals in extreme climates. Some of the Macruri seem to me to be the same as those
taken in deep water between Gibraltar and Madeira."
STATION 147A.
Station 147A (Sounding 240), off Crozet Islands (see Chart 20).
January 1, 1874; lat. 46° 45' S., long. 50° 42' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 41°:8; mean for the day, 41°:9.
Temperature of water at surface, 41°:0.
Density at 60° F. at surface, 1.02503.
Depth, 600 fathoms; deposit, Diatom Ooze, containing 36:34 per cent. of carbonate
of lime (see Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.).
At 2 A.M. sounded in 100 fathoms, no bottom. At 4.30 A.M. sounded in 90 fathoms,
At 10.45 A.M. sounded in 300 fathoms, no bottom. The land was obscured
by a thick fog. At 2 P.M. sounded in 600 fathoms. At 4 P.M. lost sight of Penguin
Island in a fog. During the day white and black albatrosses, carrion gulls, king
and numerous other penguins, prions, and stormy petrels round the ship.
Distance at noon from Penguin Island, 19 miles (?). Made good 53 miles. Amount
of current 16 miles, direction S. 20° E.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The water was quite red-coloured, due to innumerable red
Copepods, which were captured in so thick a mass that it was impossible to see the other
animals; Sagitta, Hyperia, and other organisms were, however, present. The red colour
of the water, mentioned in the Indian Ocean Directory as occurring among the islands in
these latitudes, is probably due to these small Copepods.
