38
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
regarding the distance, but in support of the view that the space is not great he quotes
Seneca, the passage in Esdras pointing to the ocean occupying only a seventh part of the
earth's surface, and the famous voyages to Ophir mentioned in the Bible. Bacon's
arguments and quotations were copied into the popular book by Petrus Alliacus called
Imago Mundi published early in the fifteenth century.
Columbus's own copy
of this
work is still to be seen at Seville with his annotations on the margin. Here he first
became acquainted with the arguments of the Greek philosophers with reference to the
probable extent of the habitable world, and their speculations as to the possibility of
crossing the Atlantic to the coasts of India. It is probable that the reading of this book
and these extracts from Bacon first suggested to Columbus the idea of a voyage across
the Atlantic; it is not likely he had any direct acquaintance with the works of Roger
Bacon.
Some interesting information regarding the opinions held during the Middle Ages with
regard to the distribution of land and water is to be found in a treatise which is now
almost universally admitted to be a genuine work of the poet Dante, who
may
be regarded
DANTE, 1265 as the herald of the Renaissance. Dante refers the elevation of the land above the water
1321 A.D.
to the influence of the stars" by way of attraction as the magnet draws the iron, or by
way of impulsion, generating impelling vapours, as in certain mountains.”
The tides are
referred to the action of the moon. The sphericity of the earth and the equality of the
level of the sea in different oceans are also discussed. In the Inferno he makes Ulysses
urge his companions to venture on a voyage into the great ocean beyond the Pillars of
Hercules.
Ristoro d'Arezzo regarded the dry land as occupying only one-tenth of the surface of
the globe, and held the opinion that the waters of the ocean were accumulated in the
southern hemisphere. We have already noted that this view was current among the
Arabs. He states this definitely in his interpretation of the Arabian celestial charts. These
celestial spheres only show the stars visible at the horizon of Cairo or Alexandria ; no
SPECULATIONs on stars are represented at the South Pole. Ristoro supposed, from a consideration of these
DISTRIBUTION OF
LAND AND WATER.
charts, that the earth was formerly completely covered by the sea, that afterwards, by a
providential decree, the stars were all grouped in the northern celestial hemisphere, that
the ocean waters had been driven towards the south, and, as a consequence of this retreat
of the sea, land appeared in our hemisphere. He also pointed out that should the con-
1 R. Bacon, Opus Magnum, edidit S. Jebb, fol. 184, London, 1733. Roger Bacon gives two figures to illustrate the
hypothesis that a narrow sea separates the eastern and western portions of the habitable world.
2 See ante, p. 2.
3 See Opus Magnum, fol. 183 ; Peschel, op. cit., p. 202. Albertus Magnus had, before Bacon, expressed the idea that
the ocean was not so immense as it was believed to be to the west of Spain. He says:—"Inter horizontem habitantium
juxta Gades Herculis et Orientem habitantium in India non est in medio, ut dicunt, nisi quoddam mare parvum
(De Cælo et Mundo, lib. ii. tract. iv. cap. 11; tom. ii. fol. 146, Lugd. 1651). Albertus supports his view upon the text
of Aristotle relative to elephants, which we have cited (p. 14).
• La Questione dell' Aqua e della Terra di Dante Alighieri, Opp. Lat. di Dante, ed. Siuliani, vol. ü. ; see also
Gardner, Nature, vol. xlvii. p. 295.
6 Canto xxvi.
5
