SUMMARY OF RESULTS,
399
CUNHA.
Lichenopora fimbriata, Busk. (100 to 150 fathoms); obtained at no other locality TRISTAN DA
by the Challenger.
Recorded from South America and
Tasmania.
hispida (Fleming). (100 to 1100 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Arctic and North
Atlantic, Fossil-Coral Crag, and Post-Pliocene of Canada.
Fasciculipora ramosa, d'Orbigny. (60 to 150 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Patagonia.
[Waters calls it Frondipora verrucosa (Lamouroux)].
Ascopodaria discreta, n.g., n.sp. (100 to 150 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality.
Rhabdopleura normani, Allman. Several specimens attached to a colony of
Lophohelia (see G. H. Fowler, Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. lii. pp.
132--134; and Festschr. z. Costen Geburtst. R. Leuckarts,
pp. 293–297, Leipzig, 1892).
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
small Pennatulid, Rhizocrinus, and Galathea.
In the foregoing list 135 species are enumerated, of which 70 are new to science,
including representatives of 8 new genera ; 55 of the new species and 3 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
With reference to these dredgings off the Tristan da Cunha group, Professor
Thomson writes :-
“ From 150 to 100 fathoms the dredge brought up a large quantity of specimens
of all groups, the most prominent a fine species of Primnoa, many Gorgoniæ,
and other Alcyonarians ; abundance of Oculina [ = Lophohetia) prolifera or some very
closely allied Coral, and of a Caryophyllia near C. borealis [= Caryophyllia profunda] ;
many Hydroids and Sponges ; a few Starfishes, one a Solaster near S. papposus and a
Cribrella close to C. sanguinolenta [= Cribrella simplex]; one or two specimens of one
of the Mollusca allied to Nassa, but few species of Molluscs. Altogether a large mass of
material much like what is found off the coast of England.
“ From 60 fathoms there were large quantities of things, especially Corals (Lophohelia
and Caryophyllia), Alcyonarians (Primnoa, Gorgonia, &c.); Polyzoa were very abundant,
and there were some Starfishes of the genera Cribrella, Solaster, and Astropecten, but few
Mollusca.
“From 75 fathoms nearly the same things were got as in 60 fathoms, notably a
profusion of Alcyonarians. These shallow-water dredgings round Tristan da Cunha gave
a great amount of material, the fauna being very much of the same character as that of
