740
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 191.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Pleurotoma (Typhlomangelia) paupera, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
(Spirotropis) brachytona, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
Natica (Amauropsis) apora, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 169 (?).
Scaphander mundus, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Melamphaës mizolepis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Recorded subsequently from Indian Ocean ("Investigator”).
Gonostoma elongatum, n.sp.
elongatum, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 194A,
360 fathoms. Recorded subsequently from Indian Ocean
(“ Investigator ”).
Chauliodus sloanii, Bl. Schn. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 60, 104,
216A, and 235.
In addition to the foregoing, the Station-book records a Sternaspis.
Excluding Protozoa, over 50 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to 43 species, of which 34 are new to science, including
representatives of 12 new genera; 17 of the new species and 3 new genera were
not obtained elsewhere.
It was observed that the stomach and intestines of all the Echini were filled with
mud, quite the same as the top layer procured in the sounding-tube.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: “The Gnathophausia taken to-day is very like
Gnathophausia gigas, the first species we obtained between Bermuda and the Azores.
The male differs from that species in many points, but only a very small specimen was
obtained, and the carapace of the female was soft and out of shape, as the animal had
just been moulting. There was another small Decapod [ = Nephropsis suhmi] differing
from the Astacidæ in the absence of the outer antennal scale and of the flagellum, and
from the Palinuride in the presence of three pairs of chelæ,-a very interesting form
intermediate between those two families, which we have already taken in 700 fathoms,
off Bermuda, and which I called in my notes Nitocris [ = Nephropsis] rosea. A large
Astacid seemed to be most closely allied to Nephrops differing apparently only in the
rudimentary condition of the eyes, which were situated underneath the rostrum. The
stalk was very short, and there was only a trace of an optical apparatus at the end on
the inferior surface; there were some hairs at the end of the stalk.”
