604
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 168.
segments of the pereion, had lost all trace of segmentation, the posterior portion
of the body being very slender and much narrower than the segmented anterior
portion. There were two specimens
two specimens of a Galathea, which seems to me to be
identical with a form first taken between Marion and Crozet Islands at a similar
depth. There were several specimens of a Crangon, which is apparently not scarce
in great depths, having been met with on two previous occasions, and two species of
Peneid shrimps, which have been taken often since leaving St. Thomas. One of the
Nymphonids had a Campanularian on its legs. An Amphipod, resembling in appearance
Krøyer's genus Unciola, but distinguished by the absence of legs on the sixth, and of all
appendages on the seventh, segments of the pereion, was taken ; it had breeding lamellæ
on the second to the fifth pairs of legs, and branchiæ on the third to the sixth pairs.”
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea
Deposits Chall. Exp.); the pelagic species, which make up about 47 per cent. of the
carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x:--
»
Biloculina comata, Brady.
depressa, d'Orbigny.
var. murrhyna, Schwager.
» serrata, Brady,
irregularis, d’Orbigny.
ringens (Lamarck).
Miliolina circularis (Bornemann).
valvularis (Reuss).
venusta (Karrer).
Planispirina celata (Costa).
Cornuspira foliacea (Philippi).
Astrorhiza sp. (?).
Pelosina rotundata, Brady.
variabilis, Brady.
Bathysiphon filiformis, Sars.
Jaculella acuta, Brady.
Hyperaminina ramosa, Brady.
Rhabdammina cornuta, Brady.
linearis, Brady.
Haplophragmium globigeriniforme (Parker and
Jones)
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
scitulum, Brady.
tenuimargo, Brady.
sp. (*).
Placopsilina bulla, Brady.
Thurammina papillata, Brady.
Hormosina globulifera, Brady.
normani, Brady.
Ammodiscus charoides (Jones and Parker).
tenuis, Brady.
Trochammina trullissata, Brady.
Webbina clavata, Jones and Parker.
Cyclammina cancellata, Brady.
orbicularis, Brady.
Textularia concaru (Karrer).
quadrilatera, Schwager.
Verneuilina propinqua, Brady.
pygmæa (Egger).
Bulimina aculeata, d'Orbigny.
affinis, d’Orbigny.
buchiana, d'Orbigny.
inflata, Seguenza.
ovata, d'Orbigny.
Cassidulina sp. (?).
Lagena globosa (Montagu).
gracilis, Williamson.
hexagona (Williamson).
sp. (3).
>
Aschemonella sp. ().
Reophax adunca, Brady.
dentaliniformis, Brady.
difflugiformis, Brady.
distans, Brady.
guttifera, Brady.
nodulosa, Brady.
scorpiurus, Montfort.
Haplophragmium foliaceum, Brady.
