118
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION IV.
Position at noon, about 60 miles S.E. of Cape St. Vincent; Cape Trafalgar distant
106 miles. Made good 60 miles. Amount of current 6 miles, direction N.
ANIMALS FROM
DREDGE AND
TRAWL.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the dredge and
trawl at this Station :
TETRACTINELLIDA (Sollas, Zool. pt. 63).
Thenea schmidtii, n.n. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 24 and 73, 390
and 1000 fathoms. Recorded from Florida.
HEXACTINELLIDA (Schulze, Zool. pt. 53).
Hyalonema lusitanicum, Bocage (?). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Recorded from off Setubal and
Porto Rico (?).
Euplectella suberea, Wyville Thomson, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at
Stations V. and 124, 1090 and 600 fathoms. Taken
subsequently by the “ Travailleur,” off the Berlingues,
in 3307 metres (about 1650 fathoms).
ALCYONARIA (Wright and Studer, Zool. pt. 64).
Strophogorgia challengeri, n.g., n.sp. Numerous specimens ; obtained at no other
locality.
DEEP-SEA MEDUSA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 12).
Pectanthis asteroides, Haeckel. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from the Mediterranean.
Drymonema victoria, Haeckel. One fragmentary specimen ; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from the
Mediterranean.
;
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus æqualis, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :
Mopsea, Actinian, two specimens of Astrogonium longimanum [= Iconaster longi-
manus), spines of Cidaris hystrix, Pagurus (very large), large crab, Tellina sp., many
living specimens of Neæra sp., Dentalium, and Mora mediterranea (?).
Excluding Protozoa, about 50 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 17 species, of which 3 are new to science, including
representative of a new genus ; 2 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
