SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
371
AT BAHIA.
Ophiocnida scabra, n.sp., is reported from this Station (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14), but Station 128.
it probably came from the dredgings on September 10 (Station 122).
The expedition remained at Bahia from September 14 till September 25, 1873.
During the stay at Bahia the steam pinnace was engaged several days dredging in the
bay. In some places the deposit was a white quartz sand, containing fragments of
felspar, mica, magnetite, hornblende, and other minerals, and also fragments of
Echinoderms, Polyzoa, Serpulæ, and other organisms. In other places it was a dark mud,
containing, along with fine argillaceous matter, all the above-mentioned minerals and
organisms. The dredgings were very successful, animals belonging to all the principal
invertebrate groups being taken ; Astrophytons and Ophiurids were especially abundant.
ANIMALS FROM
BAHIA.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been obtained
in shallow water at Bahia during the visit :-
KERATOSA (Poléjaeff, Zool. pt. 31).
Spongelia pallescens, Schmidt. Several specimens (shallow water) ; obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Psammopemma porosum, n.sp. Numerous fragments (shallow water); obtained at
no other locality.
Euspongia officinalis (Linné), var. lobosa, nov. One specimen (shallow water);
obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Cacospongia amorpha, n.sp. Two specimens (shallow water); obtained at no other
locality.
compacta, n.sp. One specimen (shallow water) ; obtained at no other
locality.
MONAXONIDA (Ridley and Dendy, Zool. pt. 59).
Pachychalina fibrosa, n.sp. Several pieces (7 to 20 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 208 and Bermuda (?).
Rhizochalina putridosa (Lamarck ?) (?). Several fragments (7 to 20 fathoms);
obtained also at Station 162 and Port Jackson, 30 to
38 fathoms. Recorded from Australian seas.
Oceanapia robusta (Bowerbank). Two specimens and fragments (doubtful whether
from Bermuda or Bahia, shallow water); see Bermuda.
Toxochalina robusta, Ridley. One specimen (7 to 20 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Port Jackson.
Esperella nuda, n.sp. One specimen (shallow water); obtained at no other locality.
fusca, n.sp. Four specimens (17
Four specimens (17 fathoms); obtained at
locality.
