486
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 150.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Terebratula uva, Broderip. Two fragments; obtained also at Stations 163 and
320, 150 and 600 fathoms. Recorded from Guatemala
and Falkland Islands.
Waldheimia kerguelenensis, n.sp. Numerous specimens; obtained also at
Stations 145 and 149.
Rhynchonella nigricans (Sowerby), var. pixydata, Watson, nov. Six specimens ;
obtained at no other locality. The species recorded from
New Zealand. Fossil—Tertiary of Tasmania.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 17).
Ascopera gigantea, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
pedunculata, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
These are the only two species of the genus.
Molgula pedunculata, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Styela grandis, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
convexa, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Polycarpa minuta, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Ascidia placenta, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
The Station-book records also :-Primnoa and another Alcyonarian (only one reported)
Arcturus, and several small fishes.
Excluding Protozoa, about 200 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 74 species, of which 53 are new to science, including
representatives of 7 new genera ; 28 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm remarks that the animals procured were very interesting from a
zoo-geographical point of view,
including many
northern genera and perhaps species, but
presented no peculiarities in their morphology.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits
Chall. Exp.); the two pelagic species, which make up about 15 per cent. of the carbonate
of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Lagena squamosa (Montagu).
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
sulcata (Walker and Jacob).
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
Uvigerina angulosa, Williamson.
subglobosa, Brady.
asperula, Czjzek.
Lagena formosa, Schwager, var. favosa, Brady. x Globigerina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
lævigata, Reuss.
dutertrei, d'Orbigny.
lævis (Montagu).
Pullenia quinqueloba, Reuss.
lineata (Williamson).
Truncatulina lobatula (Walker and Jacob).
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
93
Х
