SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
153
Station 13.
Х
Х
99
Nodosaria (Glandulina) rotundata, Reuss.
sp. (?).
Polymorphina lactea (Walker and Jacob).
sororia, Reuss.
Globigerina æquilateralis, Brady.
bulloides, d'Orbigny.
var. triloba, Reuss.
conglobata, Brady.
dubia, Egger.
inflata, d’Orbigny.
rubra, d'Orbigny.
sacculifera, Brady.
x Orbulina universa, d'Orbiguy.
* Hastigerina pelagica (d’Orbigny).
x Pullenia obliquiloculata, Parker and Jones.
quinqueloba, Reuss.
sphæroides (d'Orbigny).
x Sphæroidina dehiscens, Parker and Jones.
x Candeina nitida, d'Orbigny.
Discorbina araucana (d'Orbigny).
Truncatulina wuellerstorfi (Schwager).
x Pulvinulina canariensis (d'Orbigny).
crassa (d'Orbigny).
menardii (d’Orbigny).
micheliniana (d'Orbigny).
pauperata, Parker and Jones,
Rotalia broeckhiana, Karrer.
soldanii, d'Orbigny.
X
X
х
X X
х
Х
Surface Organisms.—The following species is recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Station
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78).
Leptocephalus pellucidus.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Oscillatoriaceæ (Tricho-
desmium ?); large Medusa, Diphyidæ ; Alciopa ; Cypridina, Phronima, Hyperia, Oxy-
cephalus (?), Phyllosoma, Lucifer; Halobates; Oxygyrus, Pterotrachea, Cuvierina; Salpa.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “In the tow-net to-day we got, for the first time, Halobates
—the representative of Hydrometra in sea-water; we also got Oxygyrus. The Hyperinæ
were represented by Hyperia, Phronima, and two examples of a genus very nearly allied
to Oxycephalus. The head in these two examples is elongated and very peculiar, and in
the male is armed with two pairs of antennæ, the inferior of which are folded up four
times and are longer than the whole animal. The anterior have a 'schaft' to which is
attached the antenna, showing sensitive hairs (Riechhaare, Hensen). The body consists
of six segments, in the last of which is the genital papilla in both sexes, and to which
are attached six pairs of limbs. The fifth and sixth pairs have the first joint very much
enlarged. Oxycephalus seems to have seven pairs, and this is the only difference I can
find separating it from that genus. Underneath the large eyes covering the head, an
otolith is to be observed above the brain. The stomach shows a square epithelium ;
the heart is very long, extending from the first to the sixth segments.”
STATION 14.
Station 14 (Sounding 58), Tenerife to Sombrero (see Chart 6 and Diagram 1). ·
March 5, 1873; lat. 21° 1' N., long. 46° 29' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 76°:8; mean for the day, 73°.1.
Temperature of water at surface, 74°:0; bottom, 36°:8.
