760
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 195.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The trawl brought up two specimens of a Gnathophausia
different from the species taken on September 23 ; they seemed to be unusually large
specimens of the widely-spread Gnathophausia zoëd. The candelabriform Polyzoon was
also present.
DIATOMACEÆ.—The following species of Diatoms were observed by Mr. Comber in the
deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
3
97
Navicula splendida, Gregory, var. diplosticta, Grunow.
aspera, Ehrenberg.
Achnanthes brevipes, Agardh.
Nitzschia marina, Grunow.
Synedra doliolus, Wallich.
Grammatophora oceanica, Ehrenberg.
Isthmia enervis, Ehrenberg.
Triceratium robertsianum, Greville.
favus, Ehrenberg, forma tetragona.
Biddulphia pulchella, Gray.
Hemidiscus cuneiformis, Wallich.
Coscinodiscus leptopus, Janisch.
excentricus, Ehrenberg, var. punctifera,
Grunow.
radiatus, Ehrenberg.
oculus-iridis, Ehrenberg.
centralis, Ehrenberg
Coscinodiscus convexus, A. Schmidt.
concinnus, Smith.
janischii, var. A. Schmidt, arafurensis,
Grunow.
reniformis, Castracane (= Stoschia
admirabilis, Janisch).
africanus, Janisch.
nodulifer, A. Schmidt.
obscurus, A. Schmidt.
rex, Wallich.
Ethmodiscus sp. (?).
Stictodiscus californicus, Greville.
Actinocyclus punctulatus, Castracane.
Asteromphalus roperianus, Greville.
elegans, Greville.
Chætoceros coarctata, Lauder.
9
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following are recorded in the note-books from the surface-
nets on this date :-Peridinium, Coscinodiscus, Foraminifera, Sagitta, Pteropods, Loligo
(from the trawl), Appendicularia, and other oceanic pelagic forms.
AT AMBOINA.
The Challenger remained at Amboina from 4.30 P.m. on October 4 till 4 P.M. on
October 10, 1874 (for description of the island see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp.
576-585). During the stay Professor Thomson and Mr. Murray were engaged several
days dredging from the pinnace in depths of 15 to 130 fathoms, the deposit in depths
of 15 to 20 fathoms being composed of shells and sand, containing 59-26 per cent. of
carbonate of lime. The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports as
having been obtained in the vicinity :-
MONAXONIDA (Ridley and Dendy, Zool. pt. 59).
Halichondria pelliculata, n.sp. One specimen (100 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality.
TETRACTINELLIDA (Sollas, Zool. pt. 63).
Pæcillastra laminaris, n.sp. Several fragments (100
Several fragments (100 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality.
ANIMALS FROM
AMBOINA.
;
