90
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
white.” 1
» 2
THE DEEP SEA.
97
TELEGRAPH
He concludes that these glauconitic casts have not been transported from
ancient formations, but have been formed where they were found in the same manner as
in geological formations. He states that his own and Ehrenberg's researches prove
that
other organisms, besides Foraminifera, may serve as moulds for the greensand, and he
notices that with the well-defined casts are associated green grains less regular in form,
“having merely a rounded, cracked, lobed, or even coprolitic appearance. The
phenomena accompanying the decomposition of organic substances, he says, are closely
connected with the formation of this mineral—a green or red silicate of iron or almost
pure
silica.
MAURY'S TABLES Maury gives tables of soundings obtained up to 1857, showing those of the “ Albany”
OF SOUNDINGS IN
(1850–51), the “ Dolphin ” (1851-52, Captain Lee), “Dolphin ” (1852–53, Lieutenant
Berryman), “ Jamestown” (1851), “Plymouth ” (1851), “Janey” (1849), “Saratoga
(1850), “ Congress ” (1851), “ John Adams ” (1851), “Susquehanna” (1851), “St. Louis”
(1852), and “Saranat” (1853). He notes the rate of descent for each 100 fathoms, as
observed in each of the principal expeditions, discussing the results of the soundings and
making use of them in the construction of his bathymetrical map.3
In 1856 Lieutenant Berryman, in the steamer “ Arctic," sounded across the North
PLATEAU OF THE
Atlantic, the principal object being to verify the discovery of a long submarine ridge
ATLANTIC.
between Newfoundland and the British Islands, to which the name of Telegraph Plateau
had been given, and along which a company was preparing to lay a cable. He obtained
samples of the deposit from thirty-four points between St. John's, Newfoundland, and
Valentia. These deposits were described by Bailey,' who, from the fact that the mineral
particles were angular, concluded that there is little movement at the bottom in deep
ABSENCE OF water, otherwise the mineral fragments would be rounded. This confirmed what was
CURRENTS IN
already known as to the relative immobility of very deep water, and was of considerable
DEEP WATER.
importance with reference to the cable about to be laid, as it showed the small chance of
displacement through bottom currents. He observed the abundance of calcareous matter
due to the accumulation of microscopic shells, which fall to the bottom after the death
VOLCANIC Ashes. of the organisms. Bailey also observed the presence of volcanic ashes in the deposits,
and remarked that the Gulf Stream had spread these “plutonic tallies" over thousands
of miles ; this most important discovery was to receive further confirmation and general-
isation from the subsequent observations of Maury. Some doubt having arisen as to
whether these ashes might not have been thrown overboard from passing steamers,
Bailey compared the two, and arrived at the conclusion that the substances found on the
bottom of the Atlantic were really of volcanic origin. Maury supposed that this dust
might have been carried by the wind from volcanoes in Central America or from extinct
volcanoes in the Western Islands, though admitting the difficulties in the way of account-
2
Ibid., p.
1 Proc, Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. v. p. 367.
3 Maury, op. cit., pl. xi,
368.
4 Amer. Journ. Sci., ser. 2, vol. xxi. pp. 284-285, 1856.
