SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
117
STATION III.
ANIMALS FROM
DREDGE.
The following three species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the dredge at
this Station :
CORALS (Moseley, Zool. pt. 7).
Flabellum apertum, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained also at Station 145, 310
fathoms.
ANNELIDA (MʻIntosh, Zool. pt. 34).
Nothria conchylega, Sars. One specimen; obtained also at Station 49, 85
fathoms. A widely-distributed species.
CIRRIPEDIA (Hoek, Zool. pt. 25).
Scalpellum velutinum, n.sp. (?). Three specimens ; obtained also at Station 335,
1425 fathoms.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :
Chondrocladia virgata, two specimens of Euplectella suberea, spicules of Hyalonema,
three specimens of Mopsea, two young specimens of Funiculina quadrangularis, Palythoa,
Tubularia, several young specimens of Archaster [ = Plutonaster] bifrons, and Limopsis.
Excluding Protozoa, about 30 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 12 species, of which 2 are new to science.
Surface Organisms.—The following were taken in the surface tow-nets :—Collo-
sphæra, Velella, Cydippe, Ianthina, Carinaria atlantica, and Salpa, also a small turtle
(Chelone imbricata).
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ Among the surface things were big blackish Copepods with
large paws (denticulated), beautiful Salpæ and Velellæ ; on the latter Ianthina was
feeding.”
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
STATION IV.
Station IV. (Sounding 18), Lisbon to Gibraltar (see Charts 2 and 3).
January 16, 1873 ; lat. 36° 25' N., long. 8° 12' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 58°:8; mean for the day, 59°:1.
Temperature of water at surface, 60°:0.
Depth, 600 fathoms; deposit, Green Sand.
At 8 A.M. sounded in 600 fathoms. At 8.30 A.M. put over dredge, which came up
about noon with very few specimens, but with great masses of a Gorgonoid entangled
in the rope and about the mouth of the dredge. On this occasion it was suggested that
the ordinary deep-sea trawl should be tried, in order to go over more ground, and
to take, if possible, animals belonging to some of the higher groups. The result fully
justified the experiment, for the trawl was sent down at 1 P.M., and on being hauled
up about 4 P.M., was found to contain a number of forms.
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL, EXP.-1893.)
16
