SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
241
---
Isophyllia marginata (Duchassaing and Michelotti). Two specimens ; obtained at Ar Bermuda.
no other locality by the Challenger.
cylindrica (Duchassaing and Michelotti). Many specimens; obtained at
no other locality by the Challenger.
knoxi (Duchassaing and Michelotti). One specimen ; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Diploria cerebriformis (Lamarck). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Mæandrina labyrinthica (Ellis and Solander). One specimen ; obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger,
sinuosissima, M.-Edwards and Haime. One specimen ; obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
strigosa, Dana. Twenty-nine specimens; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Astræa ananas (Ellis and Solander). One specimen; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
coarctata (Duchassaing and Michelotti). One specimen ; obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Siderastræa galaxed (Ellis and Solander). One specimen ; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Agaricia fragilis, Dana. Many specimens ; obtained also at St. Thomas.
Porites clavaria, Lamarck. Several specimens; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Millepora alcicornis, Linné. Two specimens ; obtained also at St. Thomas.
ramosa, Pallas.
Two specimens; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger.
ASTEROIDEA (Sladen, Zool. pt. 51).
Asterina folium (Lütken), Agassiz. One specimen; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger. Recorded from West Indies and Florida.
Asterias (Stolasterias) tenuispina, Lamarck. (Reefs); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Recorded from North Atlantic and
Mediterranean.
OPHIUROIDEA (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14).
Ophioglypha lepida, n.sp. (750 fathoms); obtained also at Stations 45, 46, 76,
and 343.
Ophionereis reticulata (Say). (Shallow water) ; obtained also at Bahia.
Ophiocoma pumila, Lütken. Young specimens (shallow water); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
