SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
91
ing for the ashes being carried such enormous distances through the air ; these difficulties
were solved by Murray in another direction during the Challenger Expedition by the
discovery of floating pumice stones in all parts of the ocean. By treating the deposits
with acid, Bailey showed that there is always a small quantity of mineral particles in
organic calcareous sediments, though veiled by the preponderance of the calcareous
element, and that the calcareous organisms increase in abundance as the Gulf Stream
is approached. He found only imperfect casts of Foraminifera in the deposits off the
northern coasts, the green casts being generally met with in the more southerly
soundings.
Maury represents the bathymetry of the Atlantic on a chart, indicating by four shades Maury's Bathy-
of colour the depths within 1000, 2000, 3000, and 4000 fathoms. He says that the METRICAL Chart.
mineral particles found in the deep sea are not rolled, any more than the small
shells associated with them, and concludes that the dynamic action of the sea
is not felt at great depths, where the currents are too slow to move anything.
This was an argument in favour of the cherished plan of binding the new and old worlds
together by means of a telegraph cable, to which he often refers. He was of opinion
that the mechanical actions which modify continental surfaces : the various effects of
temperature, rain, wind, running water, and force of gravity, produce no effect on
the bed of the sea. “We have,” he says, “in imagination been disposed to regard the
waters of the sea as a great cushion placed between the air and the bottom of the
ocean to defend and protect it from the abrading agencies of the atmosphere.” The
deeps and shallows of the ocean would remain unchanged were it not for the microscopic
organisms incessantly drawing from the sea-water the elements in solution to construct
their solid envelopes, and these being showered upon the bottom and accumulating
there. He estimated the part taken by calcareous and siliceous microscopic organisms Do MICROSCOPIC
ORGANISMS OF
in pelagic deposits, based upon Bailey's observations. He agrees with Bailey that the
DEEP-SEA
animalculæ, whose remains are found at the bottom of the sea, lived in the surface DEPOSITS LIVE IN
SURFACE WATERS
waters ; but he carries the idea too far when he asserts that the absence of light, low
temperature, and pressure, preclude the possibility of life in very deep water. Ehrenberg BOTTOM OF THE
held the opposite opinion regarding the habitat of these microscopic organisms, pointing
out the presence of organic substances in the shells dredged from the bottom of the
sea, and that some forms in the deposits were to be found nowhere else. Murray's
tow-net observations have since proved that the most abundant of these shells from the
bottom live in the surface waters.
In 1857 Captain Dayman sounded across the North Atlantic in H.M.S. “Cyclops," Dayman's SOUND-
along the great circle between Valentia and Trinity Bay, Newfoundland, a little to the NGS ON THE
OR AT THE
PLATEAU.
1 See Murray, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin., vol, ix. p. 247, 1877 ; Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.,
pp. 294 et seq., 1891.
? Maury, op. cit., pl. xi.
