SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
629
TONGATABU.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 38).
Leptoclinum tonga, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Zygæna malleus, Risso. Obtained also at Sandwich Islands.
Trygon kuhli, M. and H. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Serranus dispar, Playfair. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Mesoprion fulviflamma, Forsk. Obtained also at Fiji.
Cæsio tile, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Gerres oyena, Forsk. Obtained also at Fiji.
Holocentrum spiniferum, Forsk. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Mugil kelaarti, Günther. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
tongæ, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Ophichthys maculosus, Cuvier. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Excluding Protozoa, over 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this place, belonging to about 120 species, of which 32 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera; 22 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere. From the deeper water (240 fathoms) 6 species were obtained, of
which 5 are new, including representative of 1 new genus ; 2 of the new species and
the new genus were not obtained elsewhere. One of the new species was taken also only
in the shallower water (18 fathoms).
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The sandy bottom in 18 fathoms was evidently covered by
Algæ, among which were Corals, Crustacea, and shells. A little green Stenorhynchus was
specially adapted for life among the Algæ; the Lupea had brighter colours, and Alpheus,
a compressed little Astacid, made a cracking noise by knocking one finger of its chela
upon the other. From 240 fathoms a Hyperid was obtained having very remarkable
appendages to the pereion, enabling it to close up exactly like a ball.”
Moseley writes: “From 18 fathoms we brought up numerous Algæ, Halimeda
caulerpa, &c., one specimen of Acetabularia, great abundance of a green confervoid-
looking Iga, one melanosperm Pavonaria (?), one red Alga, and abundance of Halophila
in fruit (that on the reefs in shallow water was not, I think, in fruit).”
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).— The following species of Foraminifera were ORGANISMS FROM
observed during the examination of the deposit from 18 fathoms (Station 172); the The Deposit.
pelagic species, which make up about 6 per cent of the carbonate of lime present in the
deposit, are marked thus x :-
Nubecularia divaricata, Brady.
inflata, Brady.
lucifuga, Defrance.
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.-1893.)
Biloculina ringens (Lamarck), var. denticulata, Brady.
Spiroloculina grata, Terquem.
Miliolina alveoliniformis, Brady.
80
