30
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
ocean.
He explains the form of the world by comparing it with the tabernacle of Moses.
The stars are transported by angels, who are likewise charged with regulating
eclipses. The cause of the succession of day and night is referred to the interposition of
a great mountain, behind which the sun disappeared each evening. The firmament
extended around the earth, the ocean, and the stars, enclosing them hermetically in its
crystal walls.
WHEEL MAPS OF In the seventh century Isidore of Seville, starting from an idea suggested by the
THE MIDDLE AGES.
scriptural phrase, “the circle of the earth,” and deriving, by a false etymology,
rotundatus from rota, a wheel, declared consequently that the earth had the appear-
ance of a wheel, hence going back to the Homeric idea of a disc surrounded by the
Thus originated the “wheel maps” which ornament the manuscripts of the
Middle Ages. These maps divide the circle of the earth into an eastern part, Asia,
and into a western part, which is again subdivided into Europe and Africa. Jerusalem
occupies the centre of the world. The north and south diameter is indicated by rivers,
the Nile and the Tanais ;; finally, the Mediterranean occupies the ray perpendicular to
this diameter between Europe and Africa. The ocean surrounds the circle. This
tripartite division was supported by a text of St. Augustine," which was much used by
the cosmologists of the period as a base for their cosmographical conceptions. (See
Wheel map, Plate V.).
What has been said above suffices to show the state of ignorance and the infantile
conceptions as regards geography, to which the writers of the Dark Ages had descended.
The study of Nature was abandoned for the most adventurous speculation ; there was a
proclivity to twist facts so as to make them agree with what was believed to be religious
truth. In this shipwreck of geographical knowledge a few fragments floated; some dim
notions of ancient science were preserved among the more learned; it may be said that
all the sense that was written regarding Nature during the barbarous period was borrowed
from the philosophical works of antiquity-Pliny, Solinus, or Mela being chiefly con-
sulted. The early part of the Middle Ages produced nothing that can be regarded as
progress; geography was reduced to a simple enumeration of names of towns. The
scientific ideas which animated the times of Strabo and Ptolemy had wholly disappeared.
1 A similar opinion was held by Anaximenes, who flourished in the sixth century B.C.
2 " Orbis a rotunditate circuli dictus, quia sicut rota est,” Isidore, Origines, lib. xiv. cap. 2, 1.
3 The river Don.
* De Civitate Dei, xvi. 17 :-.“Unde videntur orbem dimidium duæ tenere, Europa et Africa, alium vero dimidium
sola Asia ... Quapropter si in duas partes orbem dividas, Orientis et Occidentis, Asia erit in una, in altera vero
Europa et Africa." This system of division bore the technical name of Divisio or Distinctio trifaria. The ancients had
adopted a quadripartite division. This theory, propounded by the astronomer Geminus (about 140 B.C.), was taken
up by Strabo, who represented the terrestrial globe as divided into four segments by the equator and by a meridian ;
two of these are to the north and two to the south of the equator. One of the segments to the north comprised
the part of the earth known to the Greeks and Romans. All the rest of the globe, that is to say three out of the
four segments, were unknown (see ante, pages 20, 21, and Vivien de St. Martin, op. cit., p. 169).
