SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
423
STATION 142.
;
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pts. 17 and 38).
Ascidia nigra (Savigny). Three specimens (probably from this Station); obtained
also at Bermuda.
Amaroucium colelloides, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Didemnum savignii, n.sp. One large colony (probably from this Station); obtained
at no other locality.
Leptoclinum edwardsi, n.sp. Several small colonies ; obtained at no other locality.
speciosum, n.sp., var. asperum, nov. Two small colonies ; the species
and variety obtained also at Bahia.
Psammaplidium subviride, n.g., n.sp. Nine colonies ; obtained at no other locality.
;
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Actiniæ,
one free and one parasitic on Pagurids, and four Sphæromids.
Excluding Protozoa, about 300 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 87 species, of which 52 are new to science, including
representatives of 8 new genera; 37 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
were
Willemoes-Suhm writes: "Besides the remarkable Echinoderms, there
beautiful specimens of a large Sabellid, probably belonging to the genus Vermilia, and
Psygmobranchus. A whitish Sphæromid was very much like a Trilobite. There was a
Calappa much more resembling Calappa mediterranea than the tropical species,
besides some Maiidæ, Herbstiæ, and some shells. The Terebratula is very like
Terebratula caput-serpentis, and there were also some specimens of a Megerlia.” All
the naturalists remarked the resemblance between the forms taken here and at similar
depths in the north.
The following species of Foraminifera and Diatoms were observed in the deposit from ORGANISMS FROM
this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up about
per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus *.
44
Biloculina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
ringens (Lamarck).
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina agglutinuns (d'Orbigny).
circularis (Bornemann).
seminulum (Linné).
venustu (Karrer).
Astrorhiza arenaria, Norman.
Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Hyperammina friabilis, Brady.
Marsipella cylindrica, Brady.
Rhabdammina abyssorum, Sars.
Rhizummina algæforinis, Brady.
indivisa, Brady.
Reophax dentaliniformis, Brady.
fusiformis (Williamson).
Haplophragmium agglutinans (d'Orbigny).
canariense (d'Orbigay).
