168
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 23.
While dredging, two sharks (Carcharias brachyurus) were caught. One had the
greater portion of one of its pectoral fins bitten off, apparently by some other shark,
there being a clean semicircular cut where the jaws had closed and bitten through the tough
cartilage and muscle. Three specimens of Echeneis remora were attached to the one fish
and two to the other, and four of these were hauled on board still maintaining their hold.
While the sharks were struggling in the water at the end of the line, they frequently
shifted their position on the fish. The belly of Echeneis is dark, and at first sight it is
difficult to persuade one's self that the back is not uppermost, and the sucker on the
ventral surface. The fish adheres so tightly to a table that it is impossible to pull it off
by exerting a vertical strain.
AT ST. THOMAS.
The Challenger remained at anchor at St. Thomas from 1.30 P.M. on March 16 till
4 P.M. on March 24, 1873. The following species are recorded in the Zoological
Reports as having been obtained during the stay by dredging in the steam-pinnace near
the Island of St. Thomas in shallow water, or by collecting on shore :-
ANIMALS FROM
Sr, THOMAS.
;
REEF CORALS (Quelch, Zool. pt. 46).
Oculina diffusa, Lamarck. One specimen (shallow water); obtained also at Bermuda.
varicosa, Lesueur. Obtained also at Bermuda.
recta, n.sp. Two specimens; obtained at no other locality.
Cladocora arbuscula (Lesueur). One specimen (shallow water); obtained also in
Simon's Bay, Cape.
Pectinia profunda (Dana). One specimen (reefs); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Isophyllia aspera (Duchassaing and Michelotti). One specimen ; obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Manicina areolata (Linné). One specimen (reefs, shallow water); obtained also in
Simon's Bay, Cape.
Agaricia fragilis (Dana). Two specimens; obtained also at Bermuda.
frondosa (Duchassaing). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Madrepora palmata (Lamarck). Several specimens ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger. Recorded from Florida Reefs.
prolifera (Lamarck). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Florida Reefs.
cervicornis (Lamarck). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Recorded from Florida Reefs,
Porites astræoides, Lamarck. One specimen; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from West Indies and Florida Reefs.
;
--
