60
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
depth must be found. The St. Gothard in Switzerland is the highest mountain I have as
yet visited, but as I have not its exact altitude, I will take the one nearest to our shores,
viz., Mount Canigou, which Mr Cassini, while tracing the Meridian of the Royal Observa-
tory of Paris, which is carried through the entire length of France, found to be 1400
fathoms above the level of the sea. I have applied this rule to the depth where the
bottom begins to descend rapidly, and also to a spot where Mount Canigou begins to
rise, to form a section, wherein one may see at a glance the connection between these two
points, equally distant from the greatest height of the mountain and the greatest depth
of the sea. This demonstration sufficiently proves, I think, that the unknown depth
of the sea corresponds with the greatest height of the mountains on land, for it is easy
to see that both are formed of superposed strata, lying at a certain ascending or
descending angle."
Marsilli allowed himself to be carried away by his love of symmetry; he does not
adduce one fact in support of his theory on the depths of the sea. But his work,
which is interesting in more than one respect, deserves to be quoted, because it
reflects the ideas of the time in which it was written, and also because the section he
gives is the first attempt to graphically represent the relief of the globe. Marsilli
held, along with the most able seamen whom he had consulted, that the greatest depth
of the Mediterranean was abreast of the island of Malta. The seamen had also observed
that when the shores are high and vertical the sea is very deep.
Marsilli makes a few observations on the knowledge then possessed concerning the
Marine DEPOSITS.
nature of the bottom of the sea. He believes that the basin of the sea was excavated
" at the time of the creation, out of the same stone which we see in the strata of
the earth, with the same interstices of clay to bind them together.”? He adds that
we should not judge of the nature of the bottom by the materials which seamen bring
up in their soundings. They dredge almost always on a muddy bottom, and very
rarely on a rocky one, because the latter is covered with slime, sand, sandy, earthy,
and calcareous concretions, and organic matter. These substances, he says, conceal
the real bottom of the sea, and have been brought there by the action of the water;
they always cover stony masses. Lastly,” he adds, “to explain myself briefly,
I may compare the bed of the sea to a cask, which, having long held wine, seems
from the inside to be made of dregs of tartar, though it is really of wood.” In the
profiles accompanying his work, he has marked with dotted lines the stony parts of the
bottom ; he distinguishes those which are covered with fine sand or with a sandy con-
glutination ; the part covered with fine sand is always that exposed to the flow of rivers.
MARSILLI ON
1 The figure (Marsilli, op. cit., pl. iii. p. 4, profiles or sections of the basin of the sea) shows the profile of Mount
Canigou, the highest mountain in the Pyrenees, the height of which is 1400 fathoms, down to Cape Rose in Catalonia.
It extends into the sea for a distance of 54 miles south-east, and at that point lies the abyss, which is as much below
the surface of the sea as the mountain is above it.
2 Marsilli, op. cit., p. 14.
