SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
743
STATION 192.
results. At 7.30 P.M. made sail. At 8 P.M. stopped and sounded in 50 fathoms, no
bottom. At midnight observed the Three Brothers Islands about three or four miles
ahead. Sounded in 65 fathoms, no bottom. The numerous islands which came in
sight during this day presented the same appearance as previously noticed at the Arrou
and Ki Islands-mostly low and flat--some hilly, but all covered with abundant
vegetation from the shore to the summit. Whilst some of these islands were altogether
omitted on the chart, the position of others seemed to be incorrectly laid down—a
condition of affairs now put an end to by the careful observations of the surveying officers
during this day's cruise. While trawling, a number of small birds (Thalassidroma) were
observed some distance from the ship, also several frigate birds and one or two gulls.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this
Station :-
ANIMALS FROM
TRAWL.
MONAXONIDA (Ridley and Dendy, Zool. pt. 59).
Esperiopsis pulchella, n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Myxilla paucispinata, n.sp. Two fragments; obtained at no other locality.
TETRACTINELLIDA (Sollas, Zool. pt. 63).
Triptolemus cladosus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Cydonium hirsutus, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Discodermia panoplia, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality,
Corallistes thomasi, n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Callipelta ornata, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the genus.
Scleritoderma flabelliformis, n.sp. Five specimens; obtained at no other locality.
Siphonidium capitatum, n.sp. Three specimens; obtained at no other locality.
Azorica marginata, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Tretolophus paniceus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Epallax callocyathus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Dorypleres dendyi, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the genus.
HEXACTINELLIDA (Schulze, Zool. pt. 53).
Lanuginella pupa, Schmidt. Several specimens; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Cape Verdes.
