794
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 205.
was caught belonging to the same species as those hitherto taken at sea (Carcharias
lamia). There were several about, and they were attended by “suckers” (
(Echeneis
remora), which were sometimes attached to the sharks, sometimes followed them, and
sometimes swam in front, just at the shark's snout.
AT HONG KONG.
The Challenger remained at Hong Kong from November 16, 1874, till January 6,
1875; the deposit in the harbour at a depth of 7 fathoms was composed of Mud and
Shells, containing 53.52 per cent. of carbonate of lime. All the zoological and other
specimens collected during the cruise between Sydney and Hong Kong were landed
at Kowloon and placed in a house belonging to the dockyard, where they were carefully
catalogued and packed by Mr. Murray, one hundred and twenty-nine cases and several
casks being placed on board H.M.S. “ Adventure ” on January 1, 1875, for transmission
to England (for description of Hong Kong see Narr. Chall. Exp., vol. i. pp. 635–639).
ANIMALS FROM
Hong Kong.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports as having been procured
in the vicinity of Hong Kong :-
;
ASTEROIDEA (Sladen, Zool. pt. 51).
Craspidaster hesperus (Müller and Troschel). (10 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 203.
Astropecten polyacanthus, Müller and Troschel. (Beach); obtained also at Port
Jackson, Japan, and Admiralty Islands.
ECHINOIDEA (Agassiz, Zool. pt. 9).
Lovenia subcarinata, Gray. Several specimens (10 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger.
Schizaster japonicus, n.sp. (10 fathoms) ; obtained also at Station 188 and Japan.
HOLOTHURIOIDEA (Théel, Zool. pt. 39).
Ocnus typicus, n.sp. Two specimens (10 fathoms); obtained at no other locality.
ANNELIDA (MʻIntosh, Zool. pt. 34).
Dasychone orientalis, n.sp. Several specimens (10 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality.
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3). —From anchor-mud in the harbour, 7 fathoms.
Pontocypris attenuata, Brady. Obtained also at New Guinea. Recorded from
Mauritius.
Bairdia foveolata, Brady. For distribution see Station 33.
