284
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Statios 78.
Clathurella formosa, Jeffreys. Obtained also at Stations 24, 73, and 85.
chariessa, n.sp.
Obtained also at Stations 24, 73, 85, and 122.
two other species undetermined.
Cithna tenella (Jeffreys). For distribution see Station 75.
Fenella elongata, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 24.
Actæon globulinus (Forbes) (?). One fragmentary specimen; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Mediterranean.
Fossil-Middle Pliocene of Calabria.
(Acteonina) chariis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
sp. (?).
Bulla semilevis, Seguenza. Obtained also at Stations 73 and 75.
Scaphander punctostriatus (Mighels). Obtained also at Stations 24 and 73.
gracilis, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 73.
Cylichna ovata, Jeffreys (?). Obtained also at Stations 24, 73, 75, and 122.
Philine quadrata (Wood). Obtained also at Station 75.
Cæcum sp. (?).
Cassis (?) sp., fry.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Palythoid on Bulla, damaged specimen of Clymene (not preserved), and Cuma.
Excluding Protozoa, over 200 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 70 species, of which 32 are new to science, including repre-
sentatives of 6 new genera; 16 of the new species and 2 new genera were not obtained
elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes: "The dredge brought up a great variety of animals. With
the exception of the genus Archaster, which, like Salenia, is found on the coast of
Portugal, the animals differed from those we formerly got in this neighbourhood.
Among the Crustacea there was a Cuma, same as got living at Station 47, off North
America, and a Tanais, which was blind and remarkable on account of its second pair of
legs being very powerfully developed. Tanais also, though an ordinary form, was got
once off North America (Station 44). There was also a little indifferent Amphipod, of which
I am doubtful whether it really comes from deep water or not, and two specimens of a
Brachyurous crab [= Lithodes agassizii] having, like Pericera, a spiny rostrum and also
long and pointed spines all over the body; the abdomen was perfectly soft, colour
On the pumice-stones I found worm-tubes like those from our last dredging; they
were remarkable for having a sort of door, shaped like a dust-pan, which evidently shuts
when the worm retires. The inhabitant was an Owenia of the Clymenidæ family, a perfect
specimen of which, however, I could not get.”
rose.
