SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
1060
--
-
--
Ships.
temperature, and dredging operations in deep water. During the last twenty years
the British Telegraph ships have furnished a large amount of information regard- Telegraph Ships.
ing the depth and nature of the deposits on the floor of the ocean, especially the ships
belonging to the Telegraph Construction and Maintenance Company, and those of the
India-Rubber, Gutta-Percha, and Telegraph Works Company. The specimens of deposits
procured by these ships, as well as those of the British Navy, have enabled Murray and Her Majesty's
Renard to give a much more complete idea of the distribution of the various kinds of
deposits in the different regions and depths throughout nearly all oceans than was
possible from the study of the Challenger collections alone.
From 1886 to 1892 a detailed physical and biological exploration of the conditions
of the lochs and fjords of the coast of Scotland has been conducted by Murray, assisted Murray's Obser-
by Mill, Irvine, Anderson, and others, interesting results as to the distribution of VATIONS ON THE
SCOTTISH Coasts.
temperature, salinity, and the effect of winds on the circulation of the water having been
obtained. The chemical composition of the water associated with the deposits has been
systematically investigated and compared with that of the superincumbent layers, and much
light has been thrown on the formation of manganese nodules, as well as on the changes
taking place in deep-sea deposits. The distribution of organisms in the deeper lochs has
also been carefully studied. Some excellent work has been carried out by Mill, Gibson,
and Dickson, on board the ship “ Jackal,” with reference to the specific gravity and
temperature of the sea-water off the northern coasts of Scotland in recent years, these
observations during the summer of 1893, under the charge of Mr. Dickson, being simul-
taneous with like observations by Swedish investigators at the entrance to the Baltic.
No better instance of a detailed piece of oceanographical work can be cited than that Swedish Investi-
now being carried on by the Swedish authorities in the Baltic and north-eastern portions GATIONS.
of the North Sea at all seasons of the year. Professor Otto Pettersson has given a most
excellent account of these detailed investigations, which have thrown much light on the
movements of large bodies of water from different sources, and on the influence of
these movements on the distribution of marine organisms at different seasons of the year."
PETTERSSON.
i See J. Y. Buchanan, On oceanic shoals discovered in the s.s.“ Dacia” in October 1883, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin.,
vol. xiii. p. 428, 1886 ; On the land slopes separating continents and ocean basins, especially those on the West Coast of
Africa, Scot. Geogr. Mag., vol. iii. p. 217, 1887 ; The exploration of the Gulf of Guinea, Scot. Geogr. Mag., vol. iv. pp.
177 and 233, 1888.
? See Murray, On the effects of winds on the distribution of temperature in the sea and fresh water lochs of the
West of Scotland, Scot. Geogr. Mag., vol. iv. p. 345, 1888 ; H. R. Mill, The Clyde Sea-Area, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin.,
vol. xxxvi. p. 641, 1891, and vol. xxxviii. p. 1, 1894 ; Murray and Irvine, On the chemical changes which take place in
the composition of the Sea-Water associated with Blue Muds on the floor of the ocean, Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin., vol.
xxxvii. p. 481, 1893 ; Murray and Irvine, On the Manganese Oxides and Manganese Nodules in Marine Deposits,
Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin., vol. xxxvii. pp. 721-742, 1894 ; W. S. Anderson, On the determination of sea-water densities by
hydrometers and Sprengel tubes, Scot. Geogr. Mag., vol. x. pp. 574–590, 1894.
2 See H. N. Dickson, Report on Physical Investigations carried out on board H.M.S." Jackal,” 1893–94, 12th
Annual Report of the Fishery Board for Scotland, p. 336, 1894.
* Otto Pettersson, A Review of Swedish Hydrographic Research in the Baltic and North Seas, Scot. Geogr. Mag.,
vol. x. pp. 281, 352, 413, 449, 525, 1894.
