xxxvi
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
successful exploration of the deep sea had not been invented. Thanks to
the rapid development of many branches of science, and the introduction of
numerous instrumental improvements, thoroughly trustworthy results can
now be obtained in the most profound depths.
In the Narrative of the Cruise of the Challenger the proceedings of
the ship at sea, the methods employed in deep-sea investigations, the
general character of the observations, the excursions of the naturalists
on land, the surveying operations of the naval officers, and the other events
of the voyage have been duly chronicled. In the Physical and Chemical
Reports the continuous magnetic and meteorologic observations and the
researches into the temperature, the specific gravity, and the chemical
composition of sea-water, are published with abundant illustration. In
the extensive series of biological memoirs the new and rare organisms
discovered by the Expedition are described and figured in great detail.
A special volume has been devoted to a discussion of the composition
and distribution of Deep-Sea Deposits. A very large part of the Challenger
Report thus consists of Special Memoirs, containing a great accumulation
of facts, and many important generalisations in nearly all the branches
of Oceanography.
The area covered by the ocean is so vast, and the positions at which
complete sets of observations have been made are relatively so few, that it
is frequently hazardous, from the information in our possession, to frame
general statements with reference to the conditions prevailing over wide
areas of the deep sea. Even when such statements are prepared by
those who have a competent knowledge of all the known observations
on the subject, they do not necessarily supply the information desired by
students engaged in the study of Oceanological problemis. Particular
observations are usually of more value to the scientific man engaged in
a new research than any general statements.
The Naturalist frequently wishes to know what observations exist with
reference to the physical surroundings and biological associations of some
animal in which he is interested. The general student or the chemist
and geologist, desirous, it may be, of investigating the composition of sea-
water or of deep-sea deposits, often asks for similar information from a
particular locality and depth, and he finds it difficult to gather any very
