336
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 107.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Acanthephyra acanthitelsonis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 106.
brevirostris, n.sp. Two specimens; obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Melamphaës crassiceps, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 120,
146, and 220, 675 to 1375 fathoms.
Chiasmodus niger, Johnson. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from North Atlantic.
Bathyonus compressus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 184 and
205, 1400 and 1050 fathoms.
Sternoptyx diaphana (Herm.). Two specimens (probably from near the surface);
for distribution see Station 101.
Platytroctes apus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the genus. Recorded subsequently from Indian
Ocean (“ Investigator ”).
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded from the Station-book :-
Portion of Hexactinellid Sponge, Halichondria, and male specimen of Petalophthalmus
armiger.
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 15 species, of which 8 are new to science, including
representatives of 3 new genera ; 4 new species and 1 new genus were not obtained
elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “In to-day's haul I got the male of the curious Mysid
taken on the 23rd, which presents very extraordinary characters. From the
coast of Portugal down to the equator we got on three different occasions males
and a female of a very large Amphipod, which I have described under the name of
Thaumops pellucida [= Cystisoma spinosum). Most of the specimens were taken by
the trawl when hauled up from deep water, and we did not know whether the
animal lived only at great depths, or whether, like Phronima, it came to the surface,
until one night a specimen was taken in the tow-net behind the ship. This shows
clearly, as might be expected from its transparency, that Cystisoma is a pelagic animal
living during the day probably at a considerable depth, but coming occasionally at
night to the very surface of the water. The eggs are very large and few in number ; I
have described them as being suspended from the first pair of ambulatory legs, but am
not now quite sure whether that was only a casual incident, and that they are in reality
contained simply within the breeding lamellæ.”
