796
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Hong Kong
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 17).
Corella japonica, n.sp. Two specimens (10 fathoms); obtained also at Station 233A,
8 to 50 fathoms, and Japan.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Serranus diacanthus, C.V. Obtained also at Stations 189 and 203.
Mesoprion vitta, Quoy and Gaimard. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Chilodactylus zonatus, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Sebastes marmoratus, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Scorpæna cirrhosa, Thunb. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Drepane punctata, Linné. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Platycephalus japonicus, Tiles. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
insidiator, Forsk. Obtained also at Australia and Japan.
Stromateus argenteus, Bl. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Gobius knutteli, Bleeker. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Eleotris sinensis, Lac. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Apocryptes polyophthalmus, Günther. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Callionymus curvicornis, C.V. Obtained also at Station 201.
Trypauchen vagina, Bl. Schn. Obtained also at Amboina and Japan.
chinensis, Steindachner. (10 fathoms); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Ophiocephalus maculatus, Lac. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Pseudoscarus nuchipunctatus, C.V. Obtained also at Fiji.
Pseudorhombus cinnamomeus, Schleg. (7 fathoms); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
Arnoglossus tenuis, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Solea ovata, Rich. (7 fathoms); obtained also at Station 203.
Cynoglossus melampetalus, Rich. (7 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Saurida argyrophanes, Rich. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Cyprinus auratus, Linné. Obtained also at Japan.
In the foregoing list 51 species are enumerated, of which 6 are new to science,
including representative of 1 new genus; 4 of the new species were not obtained
elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The surface water in the Bay of Hong Kong during the stay
was always brilliantly phosphorescent, which was due chiefly to the presence of immense
numbers of Noctiluca, the majority being large and beautiful specimens in the tailed
