352
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 120.
Bittium mamillanum, n.sp. One specimen (afterwards broken); obtained at no
other locality.
Cithna tenella, Jeffreys. For distribution see Station 75.
see
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Melamphaës crassiceps, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Stations 107,
146, and 220.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Twenty-five specimens; for distribution
Station 23.
Bathytroctes rostratus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Bathypterois quadrifilis, n.g., n.sp. One specimen (500 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 126, 770 fathoms.
Nemichthys infans, n.sp. One specimen (500 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 101.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Sertularian, Archaster, Ophiurids, many specimens of Salenia, worm (?), many
Schizopods.
Excluding Procooa, about 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were
obtained on this date, belonging to about 58 species, of which 34 are new to science,
including representatives of 6 new genera; 15 of the new species were not obtained
elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “Besides several Echinoderms, which have hitherto been
found only in the north, the dredge brought up a Crustacean (Serolis), three species of which
are known to occur on the coast of Patagonia in shallow water. There is besides a very
curious red worm, in which no bristles could be found, and which somewhat approaches
Balanoglossus in shape. The head and collar are, however, not very distinct, and its
internal organisation must differ widely from that of Balanoglossus, for on being put into
spirit it sent out a long penis. The presence of such an organ in worms indicates a much
more elaborate and distinct arrangement of the genital organs than is found either in
Nemerteans, Annelids, or Balanoglossus. Shřimps came up in considerable quantities,
most of them not of great interest, with the exception of a little Schizopod with loose
carapace ; this species has been got before, and to-day many males and females were
procured. Among the Peneids there was a very large animal with elevated carapace,
marked out into different regions by longitudinal and transverse ridges. There was also
an Amphipod, formerly got on the coast of Nova Scotia, and another somewhat approach-
ing the Hyperinæ, but apparently blind. Both these forms seem to me to differ widely
from known types."
