SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
479
here at Kerguelen not a single Decapod was found. An Amphipod, the Gammarus KERGUELEN.
which in water takes the place of flies on land, was very common. For Isopods this seemed
to be a favourite territory, Serolis being probably the most numerous in specimens and
species, though small Sphæromidæ were not uncommon, and several specimens of a spiny
Arcturus were taken ; most of these Isopods had eggs or young in their breeding pouches.
A species of Tanais obtained to-day was very interesting on account of its method of
reproduction; it had no breeding lamellæ, as in all Isopods hitherto known, but instead
two sacs at the base of the fifth pair of legs, which contained the young ones, reminding
one very much of the well-known sacs at the base of the last pair of feet in Copepods.
They were in every way similar, but here rounded and not elongated, about 24 inches in
diameter, and containing each about twenty embryos, which evidently remain there, as
they do in the breeding pouches of other species, until they have attained their full
development. Among the Molluscs there was a large white Nudibranch and a few
Gasteropoda and Lamellibranchiata, all indicating great uniformity in the Molluscan
fauna of the place. On January 20, the dredge brought up some specimens of
Siphonostomum, a genus very common in the north and in the Mediterranean, which has
a great resemblance to the northern species. These worms have, besides two long tentacles,
a quantity of branchial filaments and papillæ surrounding the mouth; at the first segment
there are also very strong and long setæ standing erect in front, and having a peculiar
structure; in the skin are many glands that exude a slimy secretion, by which they are
generally surrounded. On January 21, the dredge brought up large specimens of Serolis,
and in the trawl were great quantities of a Caprella, the male of which is very much
elongated, and has enormously long anterior claws; the female had eggs in its pouch.
On January 29, the dredge brought up many Echinoderms, a singular round simple
Ascidian, and among the worms Clymenia and Terebella, along with Dentalium and
other Molluscs. The trawl procured in the afternoon a prodigious quantity of animals,
including specimens of a large Rossella, a smaller siliceous Sponge, and a stalked one ;
small Planarians and Nemerteans ; many Annelids, among which were large quantities
of Aphrodita and Siphonostomum, and also a small Sipunculus ; quantities of Polyzoa,
also simple and composite Ascidians ; among Crustacea, an Ostracode belonging to the
Cypridinidæ, some of the big members of which seem to inhabit deeper water, many
Pycnogonids, among which were a small Nymphon, a large red Nymphon, and
Pycnogonum (several of these spiders were overgrown by an Alcyonium, which much
enlarged their appearance), two female specimens of Nebalia, differing only slightly
from the Mediterranean Nebalia geoffroyi, several male and female specimens of a
Petalophthalmid, an inch long, apparently belonging to my genus Crozetia [ = Amblyops,
Sars), established on a much larger species from deep water (these specimens with their
larvæ show that the animals undergo the Mysis-development, and that the genus is more
nearly allied to the ordinary Mysis than to the deep-sea Petalophthalmids); among the
