34
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
OROGRAPHY AND
BATHYMETRY OF
THE ARABS.
CORAĽ Islands.
sends two principal branches into the land masses. The eastern branch forms the China
Sea, the Indian Sea, the Arabian and Persian Gulfs, and the Sea of Zanzibar: the
western branch forms the Mediterranean. The water of these branches is derived from
the encircling ocean. Navigation is confined to the branches, no ship having traversed
the encircling sea. Yacut states that the inhabited climes are all north of the equator."
The Arabs have left very few documents relating to orography or bathymetry. It
is rarely that we find in their writings even an evaluation of the heights of mountains.
Ibn Khaldūn, who, in the fourteenth century, wrote his celebrated History of the Berbers,
remarks that if the highest mountains are situated near the sea, it must be regarded as
a providential arrangement to arrest the invasion of the ocean. The Arabs do not seem
to have been aware of the significance of volcanic phenomena from a geological point
of view. They admitted, however, that the surface of the globe was subject to changes ;
that the sea might occupy the place of the land or be confined within narrower limits.
We find them recording observations on the formation and destruction of coral
islands. Al-Bīrūnī: points out that in the Laccadives and Maldives several islands
sank beneath the waters, while others were raised above them, so that they became
habitable one after the other. He says :—“The name of Dyvah is given to islands that
originate in the and
appear above the water in the form of sand-banks ; these banks
in growing extend and unite till they present a solid aspect. At the same time others
of these islands by breaking up decompose, melt, and disappear in the sea; when the
inhabitants perceive this, they retire to some new island that is on the increase, transport
into these their cocoa-nuts, palms, grains, and utensils, and finally establish a new home.”4
Notions concerning the geological action of water, and the sediments carried into the
sea and then solidified, are met with in the writings of Kazwini. Al-Bīrūnī, whom we
have just cited, embraced the idea previously expressed by Megasthenes, according to
which Bengal has been formed by the accumulation of sediment deposited by the Ganges.
Al-Birūnī also shows that he had observed the distribution of materials transported by
water. He points out that the larger fragments are laid down at the upper parts of
rivers, that gravel is formed in the lower portions of their course, and that, finally, sand
and the finer particles are carried into the ocean."
We find in Masóūdī examples of the carriage of fluviatile sediments, the accumulation
of which causes the sea to retire. He had been profoundly impressed by the sanding-up
sea,
ARAB VIEWS
REGARDING THE
ON OF WATER.
1 Yacut, Geog. Dict., Leipzig, 1866, pp. 501, 504.
2 Ibn Khaldūn, Histoire des Berbers, trad. de l'Arabe par M. Slane, Paris, 1852, tom. i. p. 194.
3 Flourished about 1000 A.D.
Alberuni's India, by Sachau, London, 1888, p. 106, and Al-Bīrūnī, Reinaud, No. III., “Extrait de l'Ouvrage
d'Albirouni sur l'Inde,” Journal Asiatique, ser. 8, tom. iv. p. 265, 1884.
6 Kazwini's Kosmographie, nach der Wüstenfeldschen Textausgabe, aus dem Arabischen von H. Ethe, Leipzig, 1869.
6 Megasthenes was sent to India by Seleucus about 302 B.C., and was probably the first Greek to reach the banks
of the Ganges, certainly the first writer to give an account of the country from personal observation.
7 Alberuni's India, Sachau, p. 198.
-
