SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
595
Station 167.
Fishes (Günther, Zool. pts. 6 and 57).
Pseudorhombus hectori, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
boops, Hector. One specimen (recorded in error from 400 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
It was
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Pennatulids, small Coral, Sphæroma, Myochama, Murex zealandicus, and several
specimens of a Brama-like fish (Trachichthys).
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 33 species, of which 16 are new to science, including
representative of 1 new genus ; 8 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ In one of the Caridids brought up by the trawl I found
a Nematod curled up in the body-cavity.
a very interesting larva of
a worm, evidently belonging to the Gordiacea. This is the second time I have found
such a case of parasitism, and we have, besides, once found in deep water free-living,
perfectly opaque, worms, which looked very much like a species of Gordius, and which
were probably the adults of the shrimp parasites. No case of marine Gordii, nor of their
parasitism in shrimps, was bitherto known, so that these facts are of some biological
importance. Besides Pagurus and a fine Scalpellum, there were specimens of an
Ibaccus, a genus of which very large species are found on the coast of Australia.”
After taking many shallow soundings in Cook Strait, the Challenger anchored in Port
Hardy at 5 P.m. on June 25, 1874, remaining there till 4 A.M. on June 27, proceeding ZEALAND.
thence to Queen Charlotte Sound, where she anchored at 1.30 P.M. Three dredgings
were taken from the cutter (Station 167A, 10 fathoms). At 8 A.M. on June 28 the ship
left Queen Charlotte Sound, sailing through Cook Strait, against a strong wind and heavy
sea, to Port Nicholson, anchoring there at 5 P. M. The expedition left Port Nicholson at
4 P.M. on July 6, but the weather becoming thick, it was found necessary to anchor for
the night in Worser Bay, the ship finally leaving New Zealand at 6.40 A.M. on July 7.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the shore and ANIMALS FROM
New ZEALAND.
shallow waters of New Zealand, the locality and depth being indicated :-
AT NEW
PENNATULIDA (Kölliker, Zool. pt. 2).
Virgularia gracillima, n.sp. Fragment (Station 167A, 10 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality.
ASTEROIDEA (Sladen, Zool. pt. 51).
Asterina regularis, Verrill. (Station 167A, 10 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
