504
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 156.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Valettia coheres, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the genus.
ISOPODA (Beddard, Zool. pt. 33).
Serolis bromleyana, Willemoes-Suhm, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained also at
Stations 164, 168, and 169, 400 to 1100 fathoms.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Hymenodora mollicutis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 87, 104,
133, 157, and 318.
POLYZOA (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Bicellaria infundibulata, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 147.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Melanonus gracilis, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Only
species of the
genus.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. One specimen ; for distribution see Station 23.
Scopelus antarcticus, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Station 157,
1950 fathoms.
The fishes were alive when brought up. All the scales of Melanonus were off except
two, which had a brilliant metallic reflection.
In addition to the foregoing, Palythoa, Actinian, and egg-capsule are recorded in the
Station-book.
Excluding Protozoa, about 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were
obtained at this Station, belonging to about 37 species, of which 32 are new to science,
including representatives of 13 new genera; 13 of the new species and 6 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The bases of the arms in the Brisinga [= Freyella
fragilissima] were occupied by an ovary, in which the eggs attained a considerable size,
nearly equal to those in the pouches of the Kerguelen Schizaster. In many groups of
the lower animals it is possible to tell, from the size of the egg and the smaller or greater
quantity of yelk to be disposed of by the future embryo, whether there is a metamorphosis
or a direct development; the latter is very likely the case here. In the Gephyrean no
proboscis nor anus was seen ; the twisted intestine was as in Sipunculus, and was filled
with mud shining through the skin. It lived in a mud tube. The worm-tubes, belonging
to a Nephthys-like Annelid, were remarkable for the large Foraminifera used in their
