SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
551
;
Sebastes percoides, Rich. Obtained also at Port Jackson, 30 fathoms, and Station 163a.
D'Urville Island, New Zealand.
Percis allporti, Günther. Obtained also at Station 162.
Brachionichthys hirsutus, Lac. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Callionymus phasis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Pseudophycis bacchus (Forst.). Obtained also at D'Urville Island, New Zealand.
Læops parviceps, n.g., n.sp. Obtained also at Station 190, 35 to 49 fathoms. Only
species of the genus.
Chlorophthalmus nigripinnis, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Solenognathus fasciatus, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Several Actiniæ, Comatula, several Maiids, Stenorhynchus, Ranina, several Amphipods,
Lima, Limopsis, Pecten, Cypræa, Murex.
Excluding Protozoa, about 300 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 94 species, of which 43 are new to science, including
representatives of 8 new genera; 30 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “Among the Sponges small round silicisponges prevailed,
together with very light, elongated and perforated, forms. There was again a large
quantity of Polyzoa, but the forms differed from those taken in shallower water at
the last Station, including the gregarious Pedicellina. Among the Annelids I found
several Nereids, and among the Crustacea large Stenorhynchi and Ranina, this time
commensalistic only in Sponges. The Mollusca were represented by a large tropical
Cypræa and several Cephalopods, and the fishes by a Torpedo, a Raia, a Hippocampus,
and a small Lophioid with crested head.”
Moseley writes: "For the first time we procured enough fish to allow of our eating
them. A red Percoid came up in abundance, also a large Hippocampus, a sting-ray,
and dog-fish. Holothurians were apparently entirely absent.”
Surface Organisms. The following species are recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Station :
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Calanus finmarchicus (Günner).
valgus, n.sp.
Pleuromma abdominale (Lubbock).
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
Undina darwinii, Lubbock.
Drepanopus furcatus, n.g., n.sp.
Temora dubia (Lubbock).
Centropages violaceus (Claus).
