108
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
stations, and their general distribution so far as made known by the Challenger researches.
The distribution of each species is given in full only under the first station at which it
was taken, and in the case of previously-described species the geographical distribution
is indicated only so far as discussed in the Challenger Reports. In many of the
lists of animals from dredge and trawl will be found species belonging to intermediate
or even surface waters; if an opinion be expressed by the author of the special report
as to the habitat of the species, it is indicated in brackets after the name of the species.
The lists thus prepared from the special Zoological Reports were compared with the
lists of animals entered in the Station Book by the naturalists on board ship, and a
special note is made of any specimens which may not have reached the specialists owing
to their mutilated condition or from some other cause.
A short paragraph in heavy type states the number of specimens and species of
Metazoa procured at each station by means of the trawl or dredge, the number belonging
to new genera and species, and the number of these species not obtained elsewhere by
the Expedition. Should the manuscript journals and note-books contain any remarks
on the organisms which seemed to be of interest, these have been extracted ; when
not taken from my own journals the remarks are always placed within inverted commas,
and the name of the authority attached to the extract. Interpolations in square brackets
] indicate the names now in use for genera and species otherwise designated by the
naturalists in their journals on board ship.
At a large number of stations representative of the different areas and depths, lists
are given of the shells, frustules, and skeletons of Pteropods, Heteropods, Foraminifera,
Radiolaria, and Diatoms found in the deposits. In the case of the Foraminifera, those
species which are pelagic are indicated by a cross x, for these shells often make up more
than 80 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit.
Under the heading of Surface Organisms very complete lists of the Diatoms, Fora-
minifera, Radiolaria, Celenterates, Vermes, Crustacea, pelagic Molluscs and Fishes
captured near the surface are occasionally given, but, as a rule, the notes here inserted
are those entered in the journal on the evening of the day on which the observations were
made. On
every
available opportunity tow-nets were dragged through the surface and
sub-surface waters of the ocean, and were occasionally sent down to great depths. When
these nets were hauled on board their contents were subjected to microscopic examina-
tion by the naturalists, and the general characters of the organisms, with special notes
regarding any interesting species, entered in the journals. Frequently, when the weather
was favourable, a boat was lowered, and one or more of the naturalists examined the
surface water by means of water-glasses, hand-nets, tow-nets, and other appliances, and
notes on observations of this kind conclude the descriptions.
