514
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER,
STATION 157.
occur but rarely, often two are found closely apposed, but not uncommonly three, four, or
even more are so placed. It is, perhaps, with Chætoceros remotum, Cleve and Grunow
= C. janischianum, Castracane], the most characteristic species found on the surface.
The Chætocerotidæ and Rhizosoleniæ are abundantly represented in the surface waters,
but they are only represented by the terminal calyptræ of the latter in the bottom ooze.
Most of the delicately curved, though often large, forms of Corethron, and the singular
cylindrical Dactyliosolen, have only been found in surface gatherings, whilst the
remarkable Trachysphenia australis, Petit, var. antarctica (Schwarz) [= Fragilaria
antarctica, Castracane], which abounds in the ooze, is much less common in the surface
gatherings. Frustules of Coscinodisci and Actinocycli are also much less numerous in the
surface gatherings than in the ooze at the bottom, but nearly all the species are present
in the superficial waters found in the ooze.
The contents of the alimentary canals of several of the Echinoderms and Annelids
were examined with the view of ascertaining whether or not a predilection was exhibited
by the animals for any particular species of Diatoms; it was found, however, that they
made use of the ooze as a whole, in all probability taking in the immediate surface layer
containing specimens recently fallen from the surface, which, doubtless, still contained
some organic matter. The tubes of the Annelids, and the test of the Foraminifera Reophax
nodulosa, contained many of the large Coscinodisci, which would appear to have been to
a greater extent selected than the others in the deposit.
The form, which Count Castracane has indicated as “ Fragilaria ? an Terebraria ?
sp., may be regarded as the southern representative of Fragilaria oceanica, Cleve, from
the Arctic Ocean, with which it shows in the general arrangement and character of the
frustules a considerable amount of agreement. Among the Diatoms observed at this
Station the following have been also recorded in the Arctic zone, a few of the species
being almost cosmopolitan :-
91
Navicula aspera, Ehrenberg.
Triceratium arcticum, Brightwell.
Rhizosolenia setigera, Brightwell.
styliformis, Brightwell.
Chatoceros decipiens, Cleve.
atlanticum, Cleve.
Coscinodiscus decrescens, var. polaris, Grunow.
var. repleta, Grunow.
Coscinodiscus subtilis, Ehrenberg, var. glacialis,
Grunow.
oculus-iridis, Ehrenberg.
centralis, Ehrenberg.
normanni, Gregory.
kutzingii, A. Schmidt.
excentricus, Ehrenberg.
lineatus, Ehrenberg.
29
Among the peculiarly Antarctic species found at this Station may be noted the
following:
Pleurosigma antarcticum, Grunow.
Trachysphenia australis, Petit, var. antarctica
Amphiprora antarctica, Grupow.
(Schwarz) [ = Fragilaria antarctica, Castracane].
2 Bot. Chall. Exp., part iv. p. 47, pl. xxv. fig. 1.
