524
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 159.
Sergestes atlanticus, M.-Edwards. Three specimens; widely distributed.
Acanthephyra sica, n.sp. Two specimens; for distribution see Station 40.
Hymenodora glauca, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Station 215,
2550 fathoms.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Taonius suhmi (Lankester), n.sp. Two specimens (surface ? ); obtained also at the
surface between Australia and New Zealand, and North Atlantic,
off coast of Africa.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Pyrosoma giganteum, Lesueur. Six specimens (probably from near the surface).
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Sternoptyx diaphana (Herm.). One specimen (probably from near the surface);
for distribution see Station 101.
Opostomias micripnus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to 10 species, of which 7 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera ; 2 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—As the trawl at this Station probably never touched the bottom,
most of the species in the foregoing list may have come from surface or intermediate
waters, although some of them appear to have lived close to the bottom. In addition,
the following species are recorded from the surface in the vicinity :-
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Rhincalanus gigas, n.sp.
Sphærocapsa quadrata, Haeckel.
Euchæta prestandreæ, Philippi.
Coleapsis occulta, Haeckel.
Leuckartia flavicornis, Claus (?).
Plagonidium quadrigeminum, Haeckel.
Pleuromma abdominale (Lubbock).
Aulodendron antarcticum, Haeckel.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Primno menevillei, n.sp.
Halocypris atlantica, Lubbock.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
brevirostris, Dana.
Clio australis (d'Orbigny).
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Calanus propinquus, n.sp.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Eucalanus attenuatus (Dana).
Salpa africana-maxima, Forskåhl.
9
