778
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 200.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Hyperia sibaginis, n.sp.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Euphausia latifrons, n.sp.
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
darwinië, Lubbock.
Temora dubia (Lubbock).
Candace truncata, Dana.
Corynura gracilis, n.g., n.sp.
Calanopia elliptica, Dana.
Pontella acuta (Dana).
lævidentata, n.sp.
kröyeri, n.sp.
elephas, n.sp.
Corycæus varius, Dana.
Lubbockia squillimana, Claus.
Copilia mirabilis, Dana.
Saphirina inæqualis, Dana.
99
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Anebocaris quadroculus, n.g., n.sp.
Hectarthropus exilis, n.g., n.sp.
expansus, n.g., n.sp.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Clio (Creseis) acicula (Rang).
(Hyalocylix) striata (Rang).
The sea had the same appearance as on the previous day, and the nets from the
surface were covered with slime. All the organisms noted yesterday were observed,
Ctenophoræ being more numerous, while Echinoderm larvæ and Crustacean larvæ were
very abundant, including the larvæ of Gnathophausia zoëa (?). Nemerteans were also
present.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “There was a great abundance of surface animals from
80 fathoms, among which were the Zoëa stages (?) of a Gnathophausia taken in the
trawl. This would be very important as regards the systematic position of Gnathophausia,
for the Lophogastridæ, to which it is most nearly allied, undergo the Mysid metamorphosis,
whereas the only Schizopods undergoing the Zoëa stage are the Euphausidæ, to which
Gnathophausia is allied by the
presence accessory eyes on the maxillæ ; Gnathophausia
would therefore represent a very remarkable link between the two families.”
of
AT SAMBOANGAN,
The Challenger remained at Samboangan from 8.50 P.M. on October 23 till 6 A.M. on
October 26.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
October 24, 1874.
Surface Organisms.—A strong tide ran past the place where the ship was anchored,
and the tow-net procured many shore and bottom-living Foraminifera (Rotalia,
Miliolina, Cristellaria), which may have been washed up from the bottom, along with
parts of the stems of Hydroids and other things. There were besides :- Globigerina,
Orbulina, Echinoderm larvæ, Sabellid larve with siliceous tubes, many Zoëæ and
Nauplii, Pteropods and other small shells.
-
-
-
