SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
51
BOTTOM
COMPARED WITH
LAND.
This arrangement of the bottom of the sea is the subject of Buache’s work, and Contours or SEA
he arrives at the following conclusions :- The globe is sustained by several chains of
mountains, which cross the sea as well as the land, and serve probably to increase THOSE OF DRY
the solidity of the globe; the chains of mountains are the framework of the globe,
repeating an idea already expressed by Father Athanasius Kircher, who considered
these chains as the “squeletæ ossatura globi.” These mountains divide the sea into
different basins, which appear to be united merely because the mountains enclosing them
are, for the most part, covered with water.
The marine valleys are not all equally deep. If the water of the channel separating
France from England were withdrawn, a ridge of mountains uniting Dover and Calais
would be left uncovered. Were the sea to subside still further, the Scilly Isles and the
Isle of Wight would become mountains separated from England by valleys left dry.
Were the waters to fall 60 fathoms, England itself would become a huge mountain
separated by a valley from Normandy, and the bottom of the channel at its opening,
which would then extend from the Isle of Ushant to the Scilly Isles, would become the
sea border. Supported by these examples, drawn from a part of the ocean which he had
carefully studied, Buache concludes that islands are but the summits of the highest
mountains, and that they are frequently united by other mountains of less altitude, the
existence of which has been proved by the sounding-lead. These submarine chains,
according to the author, determine the division of the seas, and they are almost invariably
the continuation of those we find on land.
Buache distinguishes three great seas. He calls the Atlantic the Ocean, and retains
the appellation Indian Sea with the meaning attached to it by his predecessors; he calls
the Pacific Ocean the Great Sea ; lastly, he mentions two small frozen seas in the north
and south. He divides the three great oceans by means of his submarine mountains
into subordinate basins; thus the Ocean (the Atlantic) includes a sea of the North of the
Ocean, a sea of the North-West, and an Atlantic Sea of the Ocean. The Gulf of Mexico
is an annex in the west, as the Mediterranean and Baltic are in the east. All these
subdivisions refer to what we now call the North Atlantic. He did not subdivide the
South Atlantic, but gives the whole of that part of the Atlantic the name of Southern
Ocean of the Ocean.
The Indian Sea comprises the Gulf of Arabia, embracing the Red Sea and the
Persian and Arabian Gulfs, the Gulf of Bengal, and the Archipelago of India, limited
in the west by the submarine chain uniting the coast mountains of Burmah with the
north-west cape of Sumatra, to which belong as a ridge-line the Andaman and Nicobar
Islands.
He subdivides the Great Ocean into Northern Sea of the Great Ocean, South Sea
between the two tropics, and Southern Sea of the Great Ocean. These subdivisions, as
shown by Buache's map, rest on his supposed submarine chains. This nomenclature
;
