SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
777
STATION 200.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pts. 6 and 57).
Fistularia depressa, n.sp. One specimen (probably from near the surface); obtained
at no other locality.
Polyipnus spinosus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus. Recorded subsequently from Indian
Ocean (“ Investigator”).
Scopelus engraulis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality. Recorded
subsequently from Indian Ocean (“ Investigator ”).
The Station-book records also :—Two specimens of Peltogaster and several specimens
of Bopyrus on the Caridid shrimps.
Excluding Protozoa, over 80 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 22 species, of which 17 are new to science, including
representatives of 5 new genera; 9 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The trawl brought up from 250 fathoms a series of animals
belonging to a fauna not generally met with in such shallow water, including Phormosoma,
Calveria, Gnathophausia, long-legged shrimps, and Stomiatid fishes.”
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—The following species of Radiolaria were observed OrganiSMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits
Chall. Exp.) :-
Cenosphæra setosa, Ehrenberg.
Panartus setosus, Haeckel.
Dictyastrum angulatum, Ehrenberg.
Rhopalodictyum truncatum, Ehrenberg.
Spirema diplospira, Haeckel.
Surface Organisms.— The following species are recorded from the surface at
this Station :
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Sethocyrtis pleuracantha, Haeckel.
Theocyrtis trachelius, Haeckel.
Dictyomitra macilenta, Haeckel.
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Saturnulus planetes, Haeckel.
Spongopila verticillata, Haeckel.
Hagiastrum mohammedis, Haeckel.
Lychnaspis longissima, Haeckel.
Psilomelissa galeata, Haeckel.
Lamprodiscus monoceros, Ehrenberg.
Lithopera bacca, Ehrenberg.
Sethoconus trochus, Haeckel.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).— Tow-net
down to 80 fathoms.
Eucalanus attenuatus (Dana).
setiger, n.sp.
Rhincalanus cornutus, Dana.
