SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
141
STATION 3.
ASTEROIDEA (Sladen, Zool. pt. 51).
Nymphaster protentus, n.g., n.sp. Obtained at no other locality. Recorded
subsequently from Indian Ocean (“Investigator”).
Colpaster scutigerula, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
OPHIUROIDEA (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14).
Ophiacantha nodosa, n.sp. One injured specimen; obtained at no other locality.
Ophiomitra chelys (Wyville Thomson), n.sp. Several specimens ; obtained also at
Stations 33 (var. ?) and 85, 435 and 1125 fathoms.
Recorded subsequently from North Atlantic (“Blake ”).
ANNELIDA (MʻIntosh, Zool. pt. 34).
Chloenea atlantica, n.sp. Two specimens (found on the Sponge Poliopogon amadou);
obtained at no other locality.
Polynoë (Robertianella) synophthalma, n.sp. One injured specimen ; obtained also
at Station 124, 1600 fathoms.
Dalhousia atlantica, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
POLYZOA (Busk, Zool. pt. 30).
Bugula leontodon, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :--Several
other Sponges (besides Poliopogon amadou), a Hydroid Zoophyte, and a Gammarid
Crustacean, which seemed to be identical with Eusirus cuspidatus.
Excluding Protozoa, over 50 specimens of invertebrates were procured at this Station,
belonging to about 25 species, of which 10 are new to science, including representa-
tives of 4 new genera; 8 of the new species and 2 of the new genera were not obtained
elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The dredge brought up among other things a beautiful
Palmyrid with large white palettes, having besides these apparently no setigerous feet at all.
There was another Annelid allied to the Syllids, which I have drawn, and one Heteronereid
animal, living in Professor Thomson's new sponge, which was very much damaged. There
was also a little Gammarid with large pairs of claws on a pair of the ambulatory legs.”
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.-1893.)
19
