110
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION I.
OPHIUROIDEA (Lyman, Zool. pt. 14).
Ophioglypha lepida, Lyman, var. (?). Obtained also at Stations 45, 46, 76, 343,
and Bermuda, 420 to 1350 fathoms.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Platamon longimanus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen and fragment; obtained at no
other locality. Only species of the genus.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Argyropelecus olfersiï, Cuvier. One specimen (probably from surface or sub-
surface waters); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from the Atlantic. This specimen
showed signs of life and was highly phosphorescent when
brought up.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :
Astropecten sp. (?), two Ophiuroidea of two species (only one species reported),
several specimens of Eteone, probably a new species (see MʻIntosh, Zool. pt. 34, p. ii),
with tubes composed of Globigerina shells, Peneid shrimp of a fine red colour, and empty
shells of Pteropoda.
Excluding the Protozoa, over 20 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were
obtained at this Station, belonging to about 9 species, of which 2 are new to
science, a new genus being represented; the 2 new species and new genus were
not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “One of the specimens of Eteone was found without its tube,
and seemed to show some motion ; perhaps it was brought up alive, though all the rest
were dead.
I spent the day in examining this little Eteone and in making drawings of
it. Its anatomy showed nothing not already known from other species, though it is re-
markable for its blindness, all the other species of the genus known to me and to Claparède
(Annél. de Naples) having got eyes.”
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms. In the surface tow-nets specimens of Diphyes, Amphipoda,
and Diacria [ = Cavolinia], were obtained.
STATIONS IA. TO IC.
Stations IA. to Ic. (Soundings 2 to 4), Cape Finisterre to Lisbon (see Chart 3).
January 1, 1873 ; lat. 40° 23' N., long. 9° 43' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 57°:3; mean for the day, 57°•3.
Temperature of water at surface, 57°0.
-
