46
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
2
made in the open sea. During his voyage Magellan also measured distances with
the log.
The
voyage of Magellan was the greatest event in the most remarkable period of the
world's history; it far surpassed all others in its effect on oceanographical conceptions.
The memorable discoveries in the thirty years from 1492 to 1522 doubled at a single
bound all that was previously known of the surface of the earth, and added a hemisphere
to the chart of the world. The fiery zone of the ancients had been crossed, a death blow
was dealt to Ptolemy's view that the Indian Ocean was an enclosed sea, the southern
temperate zone of Aristotle and Mela had been reached. The sphericity of the earth, the
existence of Antipodes, were no longer scientific theories but demonstrated facts. The
impression produced on men's minds by these great events is without parallel, and their
influence can be traced throughout all those great intellectual and moral changes which
characterised the transitional period known as the Renaissance. Columbus, Gama,
Magellan, America, the route to India, the circumnavigation of the globe; three men
and three facts opened gloriously a new era of history, of geography, and especially of
oceanography. By creating new relations, by enlarging the field of research, observa-
tion, and study, these men and these discoveries contributed more than anything else to
the marvellous progress during the last three hundred years in all branches of human
knowledge and to the rapid development of modern civilisation. (For voyages down to
the time of Magellan, see Plate VII.)
D.-PROGRESS OF OCEANOGRAPHICAL KNOWLEDGE, FROM THE VOYAGE OF
MAGELLAN TO THE VOYAGES OF COOK.
DRAKE.
While Columbus and Gama had within a few years many imitators in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans, fifty-seven years elapsed before Drake accomplished the second
circumnavigation of the globe. Drake was the first to see the extreme promontory of
South America, later on called Cape Horn. “At length the vessel
“At length the vessel (of the Admiral)
found itself near the extremity of the country extending towards the South Pole, which
extreme cape, or most advanced point of all these islands (Tierra del Fuego), is situated
near the 56th degree.
degree. Beyond this, towards the south, we found neither islands nor
1 Krümmel, Der Ozean, p. 35; Pigafetta (Premier voyage autour du Monde, p. 52, Paris, l'an ix) says :-"For
three months and twenty days we sailed about 4000 leagues on that sea which we called the Pacific, because during all
the time of our navigation we did not experience a single storm, neither did we discover any land, with the exception
of two desert islands, in which we found nothing but birds and trees, and for this reason we named them the Unfor-
tunate Islands. We were unable to find any bottom along their coasts, and saw only a number of sharks. These islands
are 200 leagues apart, the first in 15° south latitude, the second in 9º."
• Pigafetta says—" According to the reckoning we made with the chain astern, we ran each day fifty or sixty
leagues ” (First Voyage Round the World, Hakluyt Society, p. 65; Guillemard, Life of Ferdinand Magellan, London,
1890, p. 222). The oldest description of the log, or logge, dates from the time of Bourne, 1577 (see Breusing, Zeitschr.
f. Erdkunde, Bd. iv. pp. 111 et seq.); Bourne wrote the “Rules of Navigation.” In the Encyclopædia Britannica (art.
Log) we read that the log line was used in navigation as early as 1570, and alluded to by Bourne in 1578.
