SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
387
STATION 133.
ANOMURA (Henderson, Zool. pt. 69).
Para pagurus abyssorum, M.-Edwards. Three specimens in shells of Ianthina
and Pleurotoma ; obtained also at Stations 56, 106, 195,
205, 218, 237, 300, 304, and 335.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA (Smith, Zool. pt. 35).
Lyonsiella grandis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Cryptodon moseleyi, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Ianthina rotundata, Leach. For distribution see Station 64.
Pleurotoma (Spirotropis) aganactica, n.sp. One injured specimen ; obtained at no
other locality.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Pyrosoma spinosum, n.sp. Fragment of large specimen (may have come from near
the surface); obtained also at Station 69.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Ipnops murrayi, n.g., n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained also at Stations 124 and
198. Only species of the genus.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Palythoa on Ianthina shells, Chalaraspis ungnifer [= Eucopia australis, Dana],
Petalophthalmus armiger, large Euphausia, five specimens of Macrurus belonging to
three species (in the larger specimens the scales were entirely rubbed off, the exposed flesh
being of a white colour, except in the largest example, where the flesh was of a rose
colour ; the gill-membranes were black).
Excluding Protozoa, about 50 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 31 species, of which 21 are new to science, including
representatives of 8 new genera; 7 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The trawling to-day shows that in the South Atlantic the
deep-sea fauna is not very different from that in the North Atlantic. A small male of
Deidamia [ = Willemæsia] leptodactyla, first discovered in the north, was taken, and many
Peneid shrimps, some of which were taken near Sombrero and off the coast of Brazil.
Schizopods were represented by Petalophthalmus, a Chalaraspis, and a new very large
Euphausia differing from all hitherto-known species of that genus by the absence of
lateral eyes.”
