SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
521
STATION 158.
Macrurus armatus, Hector. Eleven specimens ; obtained also at Stations 146,
147, 157, 246, and 271.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. Two specimens ; for distribution see Station 23.
Stomias boa (Risso). One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Pacific and Mediterranean.
Nearly all the specimens of Macrurus had their air-bladders distended and protruding
from the mouth.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :—Another
Sponge, Peltogaster (in pouch of Hymenaster), another species of Anomura (Galathea ?),
Caridid and Peneid shrimps, and Cephalopod.
Excluding Protozoa, about 70 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 45 species, of which 33 are new to science,
including representatives of 13 new genera ; 16 of the new species and 3 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ In the breeding cavity of a Hymenaster was a parasitical
Rhizocephalid, showing a large sucker and a flat body filled with eggs. I could not find
an anus, and am not quite sure to what genus it should be referred, but I think it is most
nearly allied to Clistosaccus, Liljeborg, the only Rhizocephalid in which there is no anus.
According to Gerstaecker, Peltogastridæ have only been found in the abdomen of Decapoda,
so that this specimen may probably have been detached and fallen into the open breeding
cavity of the Hymenaster. Among the Schizopods were : a female of Petalophthalmus
inermis [ = Boreomysis scyphops), a new species of Thysanopoda, a genus of Euphausidæ
distinguished by the presence of all the pereiopoda, the last of which are rather small and
rudimentary, and by eight pairs of lateral accessory eyes ; only small species (32 mm. in
length) were hitherto known from the surface of the Atlantic, but this species from the deep
sea is much larger (50 mm. in length), is not in the least transparent, but of the ordinary
consistency of the red deep-sea shrimps. It presents all the characters of Euphausia,
but whether the lateral eyes are present is not yet quite certain. There were several
specimens of Chalaraspis ungnifera [ = Eucopia australis), a Schizopod common in the
deep sea, and a specimen of Chalaraspidum, n.gen., characterised by shorter legs and a
much longer carapace, which extends over the third abdominal segment and is extremely
soft. An Isopod of the family Munopsidæ seems to be very characteristic of the deep
sea in the Antarctic, as it was taken in nearly every haul since we left the Cape ; a blind
specimen was taken to-day with all its legs entire but with broken antennæ. There were
two species of Galathea, a Caridid Decapod belonging to a species not hitherto taken,
and a Peneid which we have often caught in the deep sea.”
