SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
681
STATION 184.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Octopus sp. (?). (Fragments impossible to determine).
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Terebratula wyvillii, n.sp. Obtained also at Stations 160, 244, 299, 302, and 317.
Discina atlantica, King. For distribution see Station 106.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Bathyonus compressus, n.g., n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained also at Stations 107
and 205.
Porogadus gracilis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Aphyonus gelatinosus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Only species of the genus.
Alepocephalus niger, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
;
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Several specimens of Stephanoscyphus, Actinia, a rudiment of Comatula, Archaster, and
several small Ophiurids.
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 38 species, of which 28 are new to science, including
representatives of 7 new genera ; 14 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
of a
Moseley writes : “The trawl brought up half a dozen large palm fruits, one with
the albumen still present, fresh and white. The hollows of the fruits were occupied by
a small bivalve (Arca) and a Gasteropod, and the husks were bored by the young
Teredo-like bivalve. Outside they were covered with a Stephanoscyphus, and I saw a
small Nematoid among the fibres. An Actinian was found attached to a thick
Hyalonema spicule, with adapted linear base ; transparent Terebratula, an Argonauta
shell, and an Octopod were also in the net.”
Surface Organisms.—The following species is recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
Station :
THE SURFACE.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78).
Psenes cyanophrys, C.V.
A log of wood was picked up, and found to be covered with Lepas, in the stomachs
of which were many Radiolarians, one or two small Globigerina, and parts of small
Crustaceans.
