6
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
at all times, and sombre vapours there obscure the light of day.' Himilco was not
able to continue his route through this gloom, across this muddy ocean covered with
sea-weed and inhabited by marine monsters. It was through such sombre colours that
the ancients viewed the external sea to the west and beyond the coasts of Germany and
Britain, to which they gave the names of Mare cronium, pigrum, concretum, mortuum.
In Theophrastus ? and in a compilation written about the middle of the third century before
Christ,» there are other references to Carthaginian discoveries, which seem to indicate
that they were acquainted with the weed of the Sargasso Sea. The mention of sea-
monsters plunging among the sea-weeds in which the vessels were becalmed shows that
the sea-weeds could not have been attached to the shore or to shallows, and is in favour
of the view that the Carthaginians had reached the Sargasso Sea.
CHARACTER OF To judge from the few details that have been transmitted to us by classical writers,
THE PHNICIANS.
the knowledge of the ocean possessed by Phænicians and Carthaginians was of an essen-
tially practical kind. In this phase of maritime exploration, the cruises and mercantile
expeditions accomplished little more than an extension of knowledge with regard to the
extent and limits of the different seas, the most elementary part of the science.
What we know of the Carthaginians has been transmitted through the Romans,
while our information regarding the Phænicians of the eastern basin of the Mediterranean
is derived from the Greeks. The Greeks profited by the discoveries of the Phoenicians
and eventually drove them from the sea, of which they had so long been the masters.
The less bellicose Phænicians, when they encountered their rivals, sought new routes for
their maritime commerce, which for centuries they had carefully concealed, thus preserv-
ing to themselves the monopoly of the rare products for which they went in search to
great distances across the sea, such as amber, tin, silver, gold dust, pearls, and aromatics.
The precautions taken by these peoples to hide their oceanic routes tended not a
little to obscure the notions concerning the sea among the ancients. The Phoenicians
and Carthaginians excited the imaginations of their rivals, when they attempted to
follow them, by exaggerating the dangerous adventures of their distant voyages. Thus
originated harpies, griffins of the Pontus Euxinus, Scylla and Charybdis, the gelatinous
sea of the north, and other fables. Had the historical records of the Phænicians been
preserved, we should certainly have found in them more than the merest outlines of the
knowledge of the sea as a result of their voyages. These sagacious and experienced sailors
must have accumulated many important facts relating to the morphology of the ocean.
A people that initiated such great enterprises and accomplished such extensive explora-
tions, cannot have been composed solely of clever navigators, eager merchants, and bold
explorers. There must have been in their midst men of learning who speculated
concerning the origin of the phenomena of the ocean. We know little or nothing of
1 R. F. Avienus, Ora maritima, vv. 115-130, 406-415.
2 Hist. Plant., iv. 6, 7.
3 Mirab. Auscult., p. 136.
