SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
621
STATION 171.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Terebratulina (?) murrayi, n.sp. Twelve specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Fishes (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus parallelus, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained also at Stations 169, 170,
232, and 235.
rudis, n.sp. Three specimens; obtained also at Station 170.
crassiceps, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 170.
Bathygadus cottoides, n.g., n.sp. Six specimens ; obtained also at Stations 169
and 170.
Sternoptyx diaphana (Herm.). Two specimens ; for distribution see Station 101.
Gonostoma microdon, n.sp. One specimen;
for distribution see Station 23.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Aphrocallistes bocagei, Pennatulids, several Comatulæ, Archaster, Solaster, and several
Polyzoa. The vertebral column of a fish, of a very delicate structure, was found in the
trawl, all the soft parts having been washed away in hauling up.
Excluding Protozoa, about 140 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 60 species, of which 47 are new to science, including
representatives of 10 new genera; 21 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The fauna was on the whole the same as on the previous
day. Among the shrimps was a new spiny form not seen before, and two specimens
of Gnathophausia zoëa, identical with those taken in the Atlantic and not seen since
leaving the South Atlantic, except that in the Antarctic we got the skin of a
Gnathophausia, which could not be identified with any of the three described species.
A large Macrurus had Ascarides in its intestine, two of which left it when in the tub,
and two Lernæans on its gills.”
Surface Organisms.—The following species is recorded from the surface at this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Station
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Thalassicolla australis, Haeckel.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Foraminifera (Globigerina
with spines and Pulvinulina), Sagitta, Copepods, pelagic Gasteropods, Pteropods, and
Appendicularia. A specimen of Pulvinulina micheliniana was noticed with a bag-like
arrangement composed of the most transparent jelly-like matter, the shell being
completely surrounded with yellow coloured granular protoplasm.
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.--1893.)
79
