SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
87
graphical researches was soon felt. When appointed Director in 1844, Professor A. D. DEEP-SEA
Bache gave orders for the collection and preservation of the samples brought up by WORK OF THE
the sounding machine while the officers were making hydrographic observations, with the Survey.
double object of showing the relief of the sea-bottom and of forming a collection of the
substances spread over the bed of the ocean.
Professor J. W. Bailey applied himself to the microscopic study of the soundings Bailey.
collected by the U.S. Coast Survey, and in 1851 he showed the important part played
by Foraminifera in the deposits off the coast of New Jersey. Owing to the abundance of
these calcareous organisms, the deeper deposits differed considerably from the shore
deposits, in which mineral particles, especially quartz, predominated. He observes that
the quartz grains are angular in the deep soundings, and rounded and polished in
shallower water.
Lieutenant M. F. Maury, of the United States Navy, was for a long period associated Maury.
with investigations relating to navigation. He approached the problems connected with
the phenomena of the ocean from a scientific standpoint, and has in a sense popularised
the science of the sea. The last edition of his Sailing Directions ? furnishes an abstract
of his views and of the progress made up to that time. The Brussels Maritime conference
of 1853 was brought about principally through Maury's influence. The recommendations
of this conference led to the adoption of a uniform method of making nautical and
meteorological observations at sea among maritime nations, and have largely contributed
to the rapid development of ocean meteorology in recent years.
The errors arising from the old methods of sounding with a heavy weight attached
to a silk or hempen cord induced navigators and others to seek some improved apparatus,
by means of which more accurate soundings could be obtained. They had recourse to a
detonating apparatus, which exploded on touching the bottom, but this was abandoned
on account of the difficulty in hearing the detonation. Ericsson and others constructed ERICSSON'S
sounding machines containing a column of air, the compression of which indicated the
MACHINE.
pressure and thereby the depth, but all these attempts failed in very deep water.
Maury then applied to Baur, a New York mechanician, to construct from his plans a
sounding machine with a screw propellor connected with clockwork, showing on a dial
the number of revolutions made by the screw; each revolution represented a fathom.
This apparatus worked well in comparatively shallow water, but was difficult to manage
in very deep water. Lieutenant Walsh, of the United States Navy, sounded with a Walsa's WIRE-
ROPE SOUNDINGS.
wire rope more than eleven miles long, and saw his rope run out to 34,000 feet without
SOUNDING
;
9
1 Microscopical examination of soundings made by the U.S. Coast Survey, off the Atlantic coast of the United States,
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, vol. ii. article iii. pp. 1-16, 1851.
Maury, Explanations and Sailing Directions to accompany the wind and current charts, 8th ed., Washington,
1858 and 1859.
3 See Nautical Magazine, 1836, p. 390. Ericsson's principle was subsequently adopted by Sir William Thomson in
his Navigational Sounding Machine.
