20
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
2
POLYBIUS.
and water; each new point on the globe, when correctly determined, could be placed on
the map with great exactness. At this time the science of oceanography may be said
to have been founded. The navigator could henceforth direct his vessel into unknown
seas, could return by the same or another route, and could point out to others the course
he had followed. (See Plate III.).
Hipparchus regarded the whole habitable world as divided into eleven climates or
zones of latitude, for each of which he indicated the length of the longest day. He had
also a dim idea of connecting distant points by a kind of triangulation similar to that
made use of by modern geographers. He did not admit that the Atlantic and Indian
Oceans were connected towards the south of Africa, or that the former was united with
the sea that bathes the northern shores of Scythia.? These views were apparently
based on some observations of a Babylonian author, named Seleucus, with reference to
the tides, which appeared to Hipparchus incompatible with the idea of a circumfluent
and continuous ocean.
The historian Polybius,
a contemporary of Hipparchus, in like manner, did not
admit it as proved that the habitable world was surrounded by the ocean.3 This
author had more advanced ideas regarding marine sedimentation than his predecessors ;
he points out that in the Palus Mæotis the rivers bring down considerable quantities
of sediment, and estimates the time it would take for the fluviatile alluvium, not
only to fill up the Palus Mæotis, but also the Pontus Euxinus or Black Sea. The
ideas of Polybius, from a geological point of view, are most reasonable, but the rate of
encroachment has been much slower than he supposed during the two thousand years
which separate us from the time when he wrote. The modification in these seas has
not been very appreciable, for Polybius reports that in his time the greater part of the
Sea of Azov was only from 5 to 7 fathoms deep, and the same depths are marked on
modern hydrographic charts.
Polybius also gives a detailed evaluation of the dimensions of the Mediterranean. Its
length from the Strait of Gibraltar to Seleucia in Syria he gives at about 2440 miles, or
19,520 stadia,—a calculation nearer the truth than that of Eratosthenes, and short of the
real length by only 500 stadia—and to it he assigned a width of 3000 stadia. This was
considerably less than the reality, and caused him to bring the coasts of Gaul and
Liguria much too far towards the south. Polybius had probably received some dim,
floating tradition of the populous and fertile regions south of the Soudan, for he states
that the immediate neighbourhood of the equator is much less hot than the torrid zones
on either side, and that it was habitable-indeed, inhabited.
About this time Crates of Mallus is said to have constructed the first globe on which
the Atlantic Ocean is extended to the south pole. A corresponding ocean is placed on
i Strabo, i. 1, 9.
3 Polybius, iii. 38.
4 Polybius, iv. 39-42. 5 See Bunbury, op. cit., vol. ii. r. 35.
CRATES OF
Mallus.
2 204 to 122 B.C.
6 Flourished about 150 B.C.
