SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
775
the surface. There were also several forms of Radiolaria on the surface, and Mr. Murray Station 199.
with a hand-glass picked up a specimen of Globigerina, with several of the Oscillatoriaceæ
and one of the jelly-masses attached ; this specimen of Globigerina had most delicate
spines, the length of the longest ones being fully eleven times the diameter of the shell.
The tow-net sent down to 60 or 80 fathoms brought up the following :-Pyrocystis,
Peridinium (sometimes as many as twenty in a chain), Globigerina, Orbulina,
Pulvinulina, Acanthometræ, Polycystinæ, and other Radiolaria, many Acraspedote
Medusæ, Diphyes, two species of Ctenophoræ, larvæ of Echinoderms (Holothurid and
Asterid), Sagitta, Sabellid larva in tube, larvæ of Balanoglossus (Tornaria), Saphirina
and other Copepods, small Mysid and other Crustacea and larvæ, Atlanta, Macgillivraya
spinigera, Styliola, and other small shells, Appendicularia, many Fritillariæ.
Some organisms frequently observed in the Atlantic and Southern Indian Ocean, such
as : large Salpa, Velella, Physalia, Ianthina, Carinaria, another large Heteropod,
Scyllæa, Sternoptychidæ, and small Scopelidæ, have not been noticed on the surface
while cruising among the East Indian islands, since leaving Raine Island on August 31.
In the afternoon a shark, belonging to the same species as that taken on July 14
(Carcharias lamia), was caught; it had a small Echeneis attached to it.
Moseley writes : “The sea was full of minute Algæ, among which there appeared to
be a Lyngbya, Spirillum, Agonium, and Trichodesmium.”
Station 200 (Sounding 334), Amboina to Samboangan (see Chart 31).
STATION 200.
October 23, 1874; lat. 6° 47' N., long. 122° 28' E.
Temperature of air at noon, 87°:3 ; mean for the day, 83°:7.
Temperature of water at surface, 85°-5.
Density at 60° F. at surface, 1.02536.
Depth, 250 fathoms ; deposit, Green Mud.
At daybreak entered Basilan Strait. At 5.20 A.m. stopped near Sibago Island. Swung
ship to ascertain errors of compasses and of dipping-needle. Sounded in 100 fathoms,
no bottom. Position of ship at noon in Basilan Strait between Sibago and Malanipa
Islands. At 2.25 P.M. completed swinging ship. Sounded in 250 fathoms, and obtained
two hauls with the trawl, many specimens being procured. At 5 P.M. proceeded for
Samboangan, anchoring there at 8.50 P.M.
The following species are recorded in the Zoological Reports from the trawl at this
Station :-
