8
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
HOMER.
Notwithstanding the mythical and poetical elements in Homer, there are some details
worth recalling. We find in his works the conception held by the Greeks of his time
concerning land and sea. The earth is represented as a large disc with slightly elevated
edges; the ocean, an immense external river with rapid currents and unknown boundaries.
Homer does not admit that the ocean was a sea ; the expression in his verses con-
veys the idea of a river. In the middle of the disc surrounded by the ocean is placed
the Ægean Sea and its archipelagoes. All springs, streams, rivers, seas, and indeed all
the waters on the earth were the offspring of the ocean, but the poet gives no indication
that he regarded the internal sea as being in communication with the great ocean river.
It is doubtful whether, at this period, the Greeks had even heard, through the
Phænicians, of the Erythræan Sea or of the external sea to the westward of the Pillars
of Hercules, and they themselves had certainly never navigated these waters. It
is scarcely necessary to add that they were absolutely ignorant of the northern and
southern oceanic regions.
His COSMOGRAPHI In the cosmographical conception of Homer the external borders of the ocean river
CAL CONCEPTIONS. served as a support to the transparent celestial vault. Everything seems to indicate that
these conceptions of the world were derived by the Greeks from oriental sources, and
these ideas, clothed by their poets in harmonious and mythical form, were perpetuated
among the people down to the time of Hecatæus. The poems of Homer abound in
admirable descriptions of the sea ; from the sea the poet copiously borrows his com-
parisons and metaphors. This shows that the Greeks were familiar with the varied
moods of the sea, and how much its grand phenomena struck their imaginations. It is
always the poetic element which fixes their attention. Homer gives not a single
geographical detail relative to the sea. He had not even a special name for the ocean,
any more than the Greeks and the Romans during succeeding centuries had for the
Mediterranean. (See Plate I.)
Even in the time of Homer there are indications that sailors guided their ships,
during the night, by observing the constellations, and, also, that the poet possessed very
definite notions regarding winds favourable to navigation ; thus when he speaks of
Ulysses landing at Thrinakia, where he was detained for a month by contrary winds,
Homer designates all the winds in a clear and characteristic manner. The whirlpools of
the internal seas play a great rôle in the heroic expeditions—viz., those about Scylla and
SCYLLA AND
Charybdis. It is certain that the perils of those formidable points have been exaggerated
CHARY BDIS
by the imaginations of the poets. Yet the foundation of these legends reposes upon
the phenomena presented by the sea in the neighbourhood of the Strait of Messina,
where the tides and currents from two seas meet in a narrow channel. The ancient
1
Odyssey, v. 277.
2 See in Thucydides for a good description of these dangers (iv. 24). Admiral Smyth (Mediterranean, pp. 178–182)
admits that the difficulties in navigating this strait are such as to give rise to the dangerous reputation ascribed to
them by the ancients (see Bunbury, op. cit., vol. i. p. 61).
