48
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
visited during the sixteenth century; isolated points of the island-continent which was
soon to receive the name of New Holland or Australia were seen, but out of the
immense number of scattered Polynesian islands very few had been discovered, and
their identification was most uncertain.
GEOGRAPHICAL
The geographical work of the sixteenth century was continued, but with less vigour,
DISCOVERIES OF
during the seventeenth century. The only considerable result of the investigations made
THE SEVENTEENTH
AND EIGHTEENTH in the Great Ocean during the seventeenth century was the discovery by the Dutch navy
CENTURIES.
of the western half of New Holland, from the Gulf of Carpentaria in the north to
about the middle of the south coast. Abel Tasman in 1642 showed that Australia and
Van Diemans Land were surrounded by the ocean to the south, but the west coast of
New Zealand, which he visited, was believed to be a part of the Great Southern Continent.
In the north, hydrographic explorations were continued, always with a view of
discovering a shorter route to India. Hudson, in his last voyage in 1610, found near
the 60th parallel the strait now bearing his name; the current coming from the west
made him suspect the existence of a great inner sea, which was explored by himself,
and in the following years (1612–1613) by Thomas Button. William Baffin (1616)
hugged the western coast of Greenland as far as lat. 74° N., about 1} degrees higher
than the spot reached by Davis, and, continuing to sail northwards in an open sea, he
reached the strait which he named Smith's Sound, in lat. 78° N. He was unable to
proceed further in this direction. Turning south-west, he discovered on the coast, in lat.
74° to 76° N., two wide openings, Jones' Sound and Lancaster Sound, the latter of
which has played an important part in modern explorations. The name of Baffin's Bay
has deservedly been retained for the enclosed sea to which Davis' Strait leads, and into
which open important passages to the Polar Sea.
In the middle of the seventeenth century the relations of land and water had been
observed directly on two-thirds of the earth's surface. In the Pacific, the Sandwich
Islands, the Society Islands, the principal islands of the Navigator Archipelago, and the
Viti Islands had been discovered, while the Marquesas, Santa Cruz Islands, and the New
Hebrides had been discovered but lost sight of. The explorations in southern latitudes
were less numerous, and many people still believed in the existence of a vast continent
surrounding the South Pole, and extending into low latitudes. Half of the south-eastern
coast of Australia was not yet known.
When, in 1728, the Russian expedition under Bering passed through the straits which
bear his name, the discovery of the continent of America may be said to have been
completed, and the new world stood revealed in its broad and general outlines. Bering
made further explorations in the same direction, but after the numerous voyages in the
preceding centuries the absence of discoveries for over a century before Cook is surprising.
VOYAGES OF Every incentive seemed to be wanting among maritime nations at that time. All the regions
DISCOVERY FROM
1648 to 1764. offering immediate profit to the explorer had been discovered, commercial relations had
ABSENCE OF
