52
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
.
did not find favour with scientific or seafaring men, with the exception of the name of
“Great Ocean," which he gave to the Pacific.
The simplest manner of studying the relief of the globe is by dividing the land into
drainage basins, separated by ridges whose infinite ramifications cover the continents
with a natural network. Upon this primitive fact the French geographer bases all his
theories of general geography. Doubtless Buache's ideas are fundamentally true, but
they have one fault : like all theories which precede observation, they strain the facts
and exaggerate the deductions. They are, nevertheless, a first step in the right direction
towards a scientific method, founding geography no longer on an abstract line, but on the
real form and relief of each region.
Buache's oceanic nomenclature was soon abandoned, but his conception of submarine
mountains found more or less favour with Alex. von Humboldt, Bergman, Kant,
Gatterer, Ritter, and Leopold von Buch. Börsch, in his work on Orography,' opposes
these ideas, saying :—“The mountains which reach the shore should not be considered as
being united with those running in the same direction in islands or in other continents.”
Hiekisch, on the other hand, thinks that although this proposition may be correct,
it
must not be taken in too absolute a sense, for the chain of mountains in the island of
Nova Zembla should be considered as a prolongation of the Ural Mountains. Deep-sea
soundings have proved that it is only in the vicinity of continental coasts and islands
that the floor of the sea may be considered as a prolongation of the neighbouring land;
these soundings have taught us to form a more correct idea of the orography of the sea,
and have reduced hypothetical conceptions to their real value.
PROGRESS OF
CARTOGRAPHY IN
THE SIXTEENTH,
SEVENTEENTH,
AND EIGHTEENTH
CENTURIES.
With the discovery of America and the circumnavigation of Africa a new era opened
for navigation. Endeavours were immediately made to find more accurate methods of
ascertaining the position of vessels in the open sea, and more care was bestowed on the
construction of charts and the errors of the compass. The voyage of the Astronomer-
Royal, Halley, in 1699, was undertaken solely with these objects in view, and was
followed by the construction of a variation chart, and proposals for finding longitudes
from occultations of fixed stars.
We have seen that the art of drawing up maps was cultivated in the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries by the seafaring nations of the Mediterranean, and marine charts
improved more rapidly than maps of the land. In the sixteenth century this art passed
into the hands of the Spaniards and Portuguese ; about the middle of that century
the German draughtsmen took the lead; towards the end of the sixteenth and during
the seventeenth centuries the Dutch and Flemish map-makers flourished, and were after-
wards superseded by the French.
1 Börsch, Von den Unebenheiten des festen Landes, insbesondere von Gebirge, Marburg, 1817, p. 16.
? Hiekisch, Das System des Urals, Dorpat, 1882, p. 229.
