SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
567
;
;
Turbo (Ninella) staminea (Martyn). 2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other Port Jackson.
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
Turbo (Uvanilla) tentoriiformis (Jonas). (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
Nerita punctata, Quoy and Gaimard. (2 to 10 fathoms) ; obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from New
Zealand, Australia, and Indian Ocean.
Solarium (Architectonica) reevei, Hanley. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
(Torinia) rosulentum, n.sp. One specimen (35 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality.
Scalaria aculeata, Sowerby. (6 to 15 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from China to Australia.
jukesiana, Forbes. One specimen (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Australia.
Purpura (Cronia) amygdala, Kiener. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained also at Cape
York, 3 to 12 fathoms. Recorded from Australia.
Nassa (Niotha) pauperata (Lamarck). (2 to 35 fathoms); obtained also at
Stations 161 and 162.
(Alectryon) glans (Linne), var. suturalis (Lamarck). (2 to 10 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Philippines to Mauritius.
(Hima) paupera, Gould. (35 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Australia, New
Guinea, and Pacific Islands.
Fusus colosseus, Lamarck (?). (Locality uncertain, but either Arafura Sea or
Australia) Recorded from Indian Ocean and
Philippines.
hanleyi (Angas). (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Australia.
Cominella (Adamsia) typica, Dunker. (2 to 15 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Philippines and Australia.
Eburna (Zemira) australis, Sowerby. (6 to 7 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 162.
Oliva (Olivella) leucozona, Adams and Angas. (2 to 10 fathoms); obtained at no
other locality by the Challenger. Recorded from
Australia and New Ireland.
;
