260
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 70.
LAMELLIBRANCHIATA (Smith, Zool. pt. 35).
Verticordia tornata (Jeffreys). Two valves; obtained also at Station 106, 1850
fathoms.
Leda excisa (Philippi). Two valves ; obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Modiolaria semigranata (Reeve). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from the Canaries. Fossil—(?)
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Ianthina exigua, Lamarck. Obtained also at Stations 73, 75, 78, and 120, 450 to
1000 fathoms. A widely-distributed species.
Columbella sp. (?).
Pleurotoma (Mangelia) sp. (?).
POLYZOA (Busk, Zool. pt. 30 ; Waters, pt. 79).
Menipea clausa, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality. (Waters places it as a
synonym of Scrupocellaria marsupiata, Jullien, obtained by
the “ Travailleur,” north-west of Spain, 2018 fathoms.)
Farciminaria gracilis, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 122, 32 to 400 fathoms.
Bifaxaria minuta, n.g., n.sp. One fragmentary specimen ; obtained at no other
locality.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Sponge, Pennatulid, several Polyps, Starfish, and small spiny blind Isopod.
Excluding Protozoa, nearly 50 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 24 species, of which 11 are new to science, including repre-
sentatives of 2 new genera; 5 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The last three trawlings (June 24, 25, and 26), besides
procuring some interesting animals, seem to show that we have entered a deep-sea region
where decidedly northern forms prevail. For example, on the 24th the common northern
Palythoa was found, this time infesting the house of a large Pagurus distinguished by
immense claws on its ambulatory feet; also a blind Isopod belonging to the eyeless
Munopsidæ family, all the members of which occur in high northern latitudes. On the
25th there was a large red Schizopod which, though showing some Phyllopodal characters,
has its nearest allies among the Schizopods, the genus Lophogaster harmonising with it
in the main morphological points. This creature has been got by M. Sars in depths of
60 fathoms (north of Europe), and must have been caught not very far from the bottom,
as shrimps like Mysis and of this size always rest from time to time, and then go on
swimming again. It might, however, be said that it is, like Euphausia, a pelagic
