180
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 24.
Excluding Protozoa, over 350 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 245 species, of which 129 are new to science, including
representatives of 4 new genera ; 95 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes :—“Among the worms got to-day were a fragment of an
Echiurus (?) and an animal probably belonging to the genus Chætoderma. The latter is
52 mm. long and 2 mm. broad ; the pharyngeal part with the proboscis is smooth, while
all the rest of the body is covered with small spines, as remarked by Lovén in specimens
from the North Sea. At the posterior extremity the two feathered appendages described
by Lovén could not be found, the posterior end of the body being abruptly flattened. But
perhaps these parts have been retracted, as they can be according to Lovén. The mouth
was here also ‘in antico fine inflato, angustum,' and this soft part was expanded by a
liquid of a red colour, in which Moseley saw hæmoglobin. This species is probably very
nearly allied to Chætoderma nitidulum, Lovén, which I have seen in Copenhagen ; it was
taken by Lovén on the west coast of Sweden, and by Lütken near Hellebäk at the en-
trance of the Oeresund (Keferstein, Beiträge zur systematischen und anatomischen Kennt-
niss der Sipunculiden, Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool., Bd. xv. p. 442). Being the only one got
from the deep sea, I did not dissect the specimen.”
The following species of Pteropoda, Heteropoda, and Foraminifera were observed in
the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall.
Exp.)
;
ORGANISMS FROM PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
THE DEPOSIT.
Limacina inflata (d’Orbigny).
triacantha (Fischer).
lesueuri (d'Orbigny.).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
Peraclis reticulata (d'Orbigny).
Clio (Creseis) virgula (Rang).
) acicula (Rang).
(Hyalocylic) striata (Rang).
(Styliola) subula (Quoy and Gaimard).
Clio pyramidata, Linné.
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Cavolinia trispinosa (Lesueur).
quadridentata (Lesueur).
longirostris (Lesueur).
gibbosa (Rang).
uncinata (Rang).
inflexa (Lesueur).
(u
HETEROPODA (Smith, Zool. pt. 72).
Carinaria sp. (1), fry.
Atlanta peronii, Lesueur.
souleyeti, Smith.
Atlanta fusca, Eydoux and Souleyet.
inclinata, Eydoux and Souleyet.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The pelagic species, which make up about 40
per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
Nubecularia tibia, Jones and Parker.
Biloculina elongata, d’Orbigny.
Biloculina comata, Brady.
irregularis, d'Orbigny.
depressa, d'Orbigny.
lævis (Defrance).
--
