SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
11
3
B.C.
Caspian to be in communication with the external sea. The Nile takes its source in the
same external ocean. It is not necessary to dwell on other cosmographical conceptions
of the Ionian school; the spherical form of the earth, which must be regarded as the
fundamental principle of all scientific geography, was unknown to them. (See Plate I.)
Pythagoras ? and his followers, however, regarded the earth as a sphere, not from a PYTHAGOREAN
SCHOOL.
study of facts but rather from speculative considerations; they gave the earth a spherical
shape, because they held that form to be the most perfect. It is asserted by some writers
that Pythagoras taught to his chosen disciples the true doctrine that the sun occupies
the centre of the solar system, and that the earth is only one of the planets revolving
around it; and it is further affirmed that this knowledge was acquired from the Egyptians
and Chaldeans.
In the fifth century B.C. there appeared one of the most remarkable writers of Fifth CENTURY
antiquity, Herodotus," who abandoned speculative theories and gave his attention to the
HERODOTUS.
observation of facts. He may be considered the founder of the science of physical
geography, Hecatæus of Miletus being, to some extent, his precursor; for, in addition to
the cosmographical ideas we have mentioned above, Hecatæus gives much information
concerning the coast towns of the Western Mediterranean. Herodotus had relatively
little knowledge of the western regions and seas, while, on the other hand, he gives
copious information about the east and north. He had learnt from the Greek merchants
of the Pontus Euxinus that, contrary to the view of Hecatæus, the Caspian was entirely
isolated from the ocean, and he knew its form and extent. Herodotus gives to the Palus
Mæotis 5 an extent nearly equal to the Euxinus, although the latter is at least six times
greater. Commentators and geographers, founding upon this estimate of the Greek
historian, have concluded that great physical changes have taken place in the region of
the Sea of Azov in recent times. Scylax, a century after Herodotus, estimated Lake
Mæotis at one-half of that of the Euxinus. Down even to the time of Ptolemy the
ancients
gave
too great dimensions to this little sea. (See Plate II.)
It is not without interest to note that the estimates of the Pontus Euxinus are made
in Herodotus by means of the oppura," corresponding to the fathom (brasse, faden), FATHOMS USED
TO MEASURE
which is always employed by sailors as a measure of depth. “ In a long day,” he says, Distances At Sea.
“a ship usually accomplishes about 70,000 fathoms, and about 60,000 in the night.”
This employment of the word opquiá indicates distinctly that this was not only a bathy-
metrical measure, but also a nautical measure of length, the place of which has been
taken by the modern knot of navigation. Herodotus himself translates fathoms into
stadia.
The practical spirit of Herodotus concerned itself only with facts, and he dealt
1 Flourished in the sixth century B.C.
Whewell, Hist. of Ind. Sci., ed. 3, vol. i. p. 115, London, 1857.
3 Harkness, On the Magnitude of the Solar System, Nature, vol. 1 p. 532.
5 Sea of Azov.
6 Scylax, Periplus, 69.
7 The length of the outstretched arms.
8 100 ópyvias, or fathoms, 600 feet=a cable's length = 1 stadium (see Bunbury, op. cit., vol. i. pp. 176 and 209).
2
4 484 to 408 B.C.
