SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
3
with bounds ;"I “I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of
the sea ;"? “ He set a compass (circle) upon the face of the depth ;”: all seem to indicate
that the Jews held the same general opinions as to the distribution of land and water
as prevailed among the Greeks of the Homeric period. The expression in Genesis, “ Let
the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place,” 4 and a passage in
Esdras : “Upon the third day thou didst command that the waters should be gathered
in the seventh part of the earth, six parts hast thou dried up and kept them,” 5 have
been cited to show that they believed that only a seventh part of the surface of the
world was covered by the waters of the ocean. Some of these passages were cited by
Columbus in the fifteenth century to prove that the Atlantic could not be of any great
extent. The book of Esdras, however, was written after the time of Christ, probably
quite late in the first century of our era, and is no evidence for old Jewish belief. The
author of Esdras merely shares a view widely held in his time, according to which the
earth was divided into seven zones or climates. The view that the Hebrews believed the
land to be much less extended than the ocean cannot be said to be well founded.6
Maritime commerce was almost unknown to the Egyptians, who appear to have had at The Egyptians.
all times an antipathy to everything connected with the sea. We do not find anything in
the history of this ancient people which indicates that they took any part in discoveries
relating to oceanography ; their ships, as for instance in the voyage of Necho, appear
always to have been manned by Phænician sailors." It is among maritime and
commercial nations, who must familiarise themselves with the phenomena of the sea, that
we find the first true ideas concerning the morphology of the ocean.
Long before the Greeks had emerged from a state of barbarism, and long before the The Phænicians.
oldest Greek and Hebrew records, the Phænicians had settled all over the Mediterranean.
The earliest notices represent them as a nation of clever navigators, capable of making
distant voyages.
In pursuit of commerce, they traversed the Mediterranean, that great
enclosed sea presenting fewer difficulties to navigation than the Erythræan Sea or Indian
Ocean, from whence they are supposed to have originally emigrated. At first they
1 Job, xxvi. 10.
* Psalms, cxxxix. 9.
3 Proverbs, viii. 27.
• Genesis, i 9.
5 II. (IV.) Esdras, chap. vi. v. 41, “ Et tertia die imperasti aquis congregari in septima parte terræ."
6 Humboldt, Examen critique de l'histoire de la géographie du nouveau continent et des progrés de l'astronomie
nautique au 15me et 16me siècles, Paris, 1836, tom. i. p. 188. Humboldt states that the Hindus, like the Hebrews,
had seven zones and seven climates, but with the Hindus the seven terrestrial zones are separated by seven seas.
In this arrangement, however, the total mass of the liquid zones is not limited-among the zones are the bizarre,
rather than poetic, seas of curdled milk, of sugar, and of clarified butter.
7 E. H. Bunbury, History of Ancient Geography, vol. i. p. 3, London, 1883.
8 As stated above, the Phænicians knew the Erythræan Sea. Herodotus (I., 1 ; VII., 89) reports that they came
from the coasts of that sea to settle down on the shores of the Mediterranean during historical times. This opinion is
admitted by several modern historians, among others by Movers (Die Phænizier, Bd. i., pp. 9-12). The weight of
modern judgment appears to be against this view. Kenrick (Phoenicia, p. 52) rejects it. (See also Bunbury, op. cit., vol. i.
p. 5, note 3 ; Konrad Kretschmer, Die Entdeckung Amerika's in ihrer Bedeutung für die Geschichte des Weltbilds,
p. 12, Berlin, 1892; Ency. Brit., art. “ Phænicia,” by Prof. A. von Gutschmid; The Ruined Cities of Mashonaland,
by J. T. Bent, London, 1892 ; Rawlinson's Hist. of Phænicia, London, 1889, p. 53 ; Pietschmann, Geschichte der
Phænizier, Berlin, 1889, p. 113.)
