SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
587
Depth, 2600 fathoms ; deposit, Red Clay, containing 19:13 per cent. of carbonate Station 165A.
of lime (see Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.).
Weather very fine. At 1.30 P.M. stopped and sounded in 2600 fathoms. Took
serial temperatures down to 1500 fathoms, and specimens of water down to 400 fathoms.
The carbonic acid was determined in water from 5 fathoms, and amounted to
51'1 milligrammes per litre. Cutter away with naturalists for surface collecting.
At 5 P.m. completed observations, and proceeded under steam.
Cape Farewell distant at noon, 735 miles. Made
Made good 148 miles. Amount of
current 14 miles, direction S. 60° E.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were OrganisMS FROM
observed in the deposit from this Station ; the pelagic species, which make up about The Deposit.
52 per cent of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
99
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
irregularis, d'Orbigny.
Haplophragmium agglutinans (d'Orbigny).
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Ammodiscus incertus (d'Orbigny).
Trochammina galeata, Brady.
trullissata, Brady.
Textularia agglutinans, d'Orbigny.
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
siphonella, Reuss.
Clavulina communis, d'Orbigny.
Bulimina elegans, d'Orbigny (1)
Virgulina schreibersiana, Czjzek.
Bolivina textilarioides, Reuss.
Cassidulina subglobosa, Brady.
Lagena acuticosta, Reuss.
auriculata, Brady.
hispida, Reuss.
Lagena lævis (Montagu).
marginata (Walker and Boys).
var. semimarginata, Reuss.
squamosa (Montagu).
sp. (?).
Polymorphina angusta, Egger.
Uvigerina tenuistriata, Reuss.
sp. (1).
x Globigerina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
x Orbulina universa, d’Orbigny.
Pullenia quinqueloba, Reuss.
sphæroides (d'Orbigny).
Truncatulina lobatula (Walker and Jacob).
x Pulvinulina crassa (d'Orbigny) (3).
exigua, Brady.
Rotalia soldanii, d'Orbigny.
Nonionina umbilicatula (Montagu).
9
Surface Organisms.—The sea was very smooth, and Murray from a boat collected ORGANISMS FROM
THE SURFACE.
many specimens of Foraminifera, Collozoum inerme and other Radiolaria, Infusoria,
Medusæ, Siphonophoræ, Ctenophoræ, very long specimens of Alciopa with intensely
black spots, Sagitta, Copepods, Hyperia, Euphausia, and Salpa. There were great
numbers of minute, quite transparent, jelly-masses, which on examination were found to
enclose a number of Coccospheres and occasionally Rhabdospheres, with other small
foreign bodies—supposed by Murray to be the Myxobrachia of Haeckel; numberless
Coccospheres and a few Rhabdospheres were also found in the stomachs of the Salpæ. A
very long, ribbon-like, animal of a golden green colour-supposed to be a Cestum—was
observed.
