SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
545
STATION 162.
Callionymus calauropomus, Rich. Obtained also at Station 204, 115 fathoms.
Lophonectes gallus; n.g., n.sp. Obtained also at Port Jackson, 30 fathoms. Only
species of the genus.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Actinian, several Comatulæ, and shell of Argonauta hians.
Excluding Protozoa, about 500 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 210 species, of which 94 are new to science,
including representatives of 14 new genera ; 65 of the new species and 5 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The dredge and trawl brought up a great mass of speci-
mens very
well illustrating the Australian shallow-water fauna. Besides the remarkable
Goniocidaris and other Echinoderms, all the chief genera of the larger Polyzoa : Eschara,
Retepora, Flustra, Catenicella, Biflustra, were found. There were only a few Annelids,
among which I remarked a very elongated form of Aphroditaceans. A Ranina was found
commensalistic in Ascidians and Sponges. Ascidians were very plentiful, both simple and
composite. Among the Mollusca, which were represented by some genera of warmer
climates, as Pinna, Conus, and Cypræd, we found empty shells of Trigonia and
Argonauta, also some specimens of Octopod cuttle-fishes. The fishes included a small
species of Balistes, Trigla, and Platessa.”
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
locality :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
Phoxocephalus bassi, n.sp.
Xiphostylus phasianus, Haeckel.
Tetrathyrus moncæuri, n.sp.
Castanidium bromleyi, Haeckel.
Thamneus platyrrhynchus, n.sp
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Nyctiphanes australis, n.g., n.sp.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Acartia denticornis, n.sp.
Candace pectinato, Brady.
Copilia mirabilis, Dana.
Corycæus varius, Dana.
Oncæa obtusa (Dana).
Saphirina ovalis, Dana.
Setella gracilis, Dana.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
lesueuri (d'Orbigny).
trochiformis (d'Orbigny).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
Clio (Creseis) virgula (Rang).
Cavolinia longirostris (Lesueur).
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Euthemisto australis, n.sp. (?).
