SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
675
Excluding Protozoa, about 20 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained Station 181.
at this Station, belonging to about 12 species, of which 9 are new to science, including
representatives of 5 new genera; 5 of the new species and 1 new genus were not
obtained elsewhere.
The specimen of Pachystomias microdon had one club-shaped spot of a rose colour
directly below the eye, another a little above and in front of the eye, the latter about
half the size of the former; these spots became yellow in spirit. The two rows of
phosphorescent dots on the body were red with a circle of very pale violet ; these became
white in spirit. No trace of an eye could be observed in Typhlonus, but a dark spot was
to be seen far beneath the skin behind the nostrils ; the body of the fish was white, the
fins black; all the scales were off, with the exception of one or two, which were of a
dark colour.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in this ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
locality (August 25, 26) :-
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
Copilia mirabilis, Dana.
Halocypris atlantica, Lubbock.
Oncæa obtusa, Dana.
brevirostris, Dana.
Saphirina ovalis, Dana.
inæqualis, Dana.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt 23).
serrata, n.sp.
Calanus gracilis, Dana.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Eucalanus attenuatus (Dana).
Pleuromma abdominale (Lubbock).
Paraphronima cuivis, n.sp.
Phronima megalodous, n.sp.
Undina darwinii, Lubbock.
Phorcorrhaphis sp. (?).
vulgaris, Dana.
Scolecithrix danæ (Lubbock).
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Temora dubia (Lubbock).
Euchạta prestandrea, Philippi.
Ceratolepis hamata, n.g., n.sp."
hessei, n.sp.
Euphausia pellucida, Dana.
australis, n.sp.
gracilis, Dana.
Candace truncata, Dana.
Thysanopoda tricuspidata, M.-
pectinata, Brady.
Edwards.
Setella gracilis, Dana.
Pontella acutifrons (Dana).
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
plumata (Dana).
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
Corycæus varius, Dana.
bulimoides (d’Orbigny).
venustus, Dana.
Clio (Creseis) virgula (Rang).
Sars is doubtful whether this specimen came from the surface ; it is more like a deep-sea species.
