522
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 158.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea
Deposits Chall. Exp.); the pelagic species, which make up about 88 per cent. of the
carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
X
Biloculina depressa, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina auberiana (d'Orbigny).
venusta (Karrer).
Astrorhiza sp. (?).
Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Hyperammina ramosa, Brady.
Rhizammina algæformis, Brady.
Reophax scorpiurus, Montfort.
Haplophragmium globigeriniforme (Parker and
Jones).
turbinatum, Brady.
Hormosina carpenteri, Brady.
Webbina clavata, Jones and Parker.
Gaudryina pupoides, d'Orbigny.
Clavulina communis, d'Orbigny.
Cassidulina subglobosa, Brady.
Ehrenbergina serrata, Reuss.
Lagena marginata (Walker and Boys).
Lagena truncata, Brady.
Nodosaria sp. (?).
Polymorphina cuspidata, Brady.
lanceolata, Reuss.
sororia, Reuss, var.
Uvigerina asperula, Czjzek.
x Globigerina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
inflata, d'Orbigny.
x Orbulina universa, d'Orbigny.
Pullenia sphæroides (d'Orbigny).
Sphæroidina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
Truncatulina tenera, Brady.
ungeriana (d'Orbigny).
x Pulvinulina crassa (d'Orbigny).
micheliniana (d'Orbigny).
patagonica (d'Orbigny).
Rotalia soldanii, d’Orbigny.
Nonionina pompilioides (Fichtel and Moll).
X X
9
х
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this
Station :
OSTRACODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 3).
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Halocypris atlantica, Lubbock.
Euthemisto thomsoni, Stebbing.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 58).
Ætidius armatus, n.g., n.sp.
Spongiobranchæa australis,
Heterochæta spinifrons, Claus.
d'Orbigny
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-A very few Diatoms,
Globigerina, Orbulina, Medusæ, a fine Nemertean [Pelagonemertes rollestoni, Moseley)
which, though taken in the trawl, is evidently a pelagic animal, but probably lives in
moderately deep water, Sagitta, Cypridina, great quantities of the Antarctic Copepods,
large Hyperia, Primno, Phronima, and small shells of Spirialis [= Limacina).
Some of the surface animals taken to-day indicate that we have entered the warm
Indian current, e.g., a Phronima, a large transparent Nemertean with Dendrocoelous
characters, which was two inches in length and showed well the intestine, nervous system,
and ovary, as well as several species of pelagic Foraminifera.
