SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
47
-
-
continents, but only the meeting of the Atlantic and the South Sea, in a vast and free
space."! In North America Drake reconnoitred a country, till then unexplored, on the
western coast, from Cape Mendocino (in lat. 41}' N.) northwards to near lat. 48° N.,
not far from the Vancouver archipelago, now called the Oregon coast.
The search after a north-east passage from Europe to Asia must have been suggested SEARCH FOR
NORTH-EAST AND
by the form given to the northern part of the Asiatic continent in Ptolemy's map. NORTH-WEST
Sebastian Cabot was one of the promoters of Willoughby's Expedition, which went Passages.
in search of this passage in 1553. This expedition was a repetition of the periplus of
Scandinavia formerly accomplished by Ohthere. One of the three vessels commanded
by Chancellor reached the White Sea, and anchored in the harbour of Archangel, whence
Chancellor proceeded to Moscow and concluded a commercial treaty with the Russians.
In 1556 Stephen Burrough continued the discoveries of the preceding expedition, and
reached the Strait of Kara, but proceeded no further. The attempts of the Dutch to
pass around Asia by the north-east were not more successful. The fruitless expeditions
of the Dutch have, however, left their trace on the history of navigation. To them we
owe the discovery of the two largest islands in the boreal seas—Nova Zembla and
Spitzbergen ; on reaching the northern extremity of Spitzbergen, in 1596, in latitude
80° 11' N., Barents had penetrated further north than any former navigator.
The idea of a north-west passage was revived twelve or fifteen years after Chancellor's
voyage, but we need not follow the endeavours made in that direction by Frobisher,
John Davis and Hudson, between the years 1576 and 1610, although their voyages
furnished much information on the morphology of the northern seas.
At the time of Magellan the only coasts of America known were those laved by the
Atlantic; of the western coasts only a very small part had as yet been seen, but on the
coasts of Africa, Asia, and Oceania the work of discovery was continued and largely
completed. The maps drawn in the last quarter of the sixteenth century show at a glance Charts OF THE
SIXTEENTH
the degree of knowledge arrived at regarding the New World. The general contour is as
CENTURY.
exact as could be expected from nautical surveys aided by the compass only, and based on
determinations of latitude correct to within one-third of a degree, but without any
astronomical longitudes. Two parts were still vague, viz., both extremities of the new
continent. In the south the cartographers connected the unexplored lands about the Strait
of Magellan with the vague conception of an austral continent of vast extent, and this
idea was long held. The nautical knowledge of the north did not extend beyond the
latitude of 41°N. on the north-west coast and 65° N. on the north-east. The
voyages
of
Mendaña, Queiros, and Torres added much to our knowledge of the Pacific Ocean. Many
of the islands situated in the great Asiatic archipelago, as far as New Guinea, were
1 Drake's World Encompassed, Hakluyt Society, p. 87.
? See Dalrymple, An Historical Collection of Voyages in the South Pacific Ocean, London, 1770; Major, Early
Voyages to Terra Australis ; Rainaud, Le Continent Austral, 1893.
