498
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 153.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ The dredge brought up a long Sponge-like Alcyonarian,
on which was an Aphroditacean Annelid. The Polyzoon had small Cirripedia on it.
Among the Crustacea was a whitish, blind and very spinous, Idothea-like Isopod, and
also a small Mysis, the eyes
of which were Petalophthalmid, belonging to the same genus
as the one found near Kerguelen and the Crozets.”
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The following species of Foraminifera were
observed in the deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits
Chall. Exp.); the two pelagic species, which make up about 57 per cent. of the carbonate
of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x :-
Astrorhiza angulosa, Brady (?).
Trochammina pauciloculata, Brady.
granulosa, Brady (?).
trullissata, Brady.
Pelosina cylindrica, Brady.
Webbina clavata, Jones and Parker.
Psammosphæra fusca, Schulze.
Cyclammina orbicularis, Brady.
Saccammina sphærica, Sars.
pusilla, Brady.
Hyperammina vagans, Brady.
O'lavulina communis, d'Orbigny.
Marsipella cylindrica, Braly.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
Rhabdammina abyssorum, Sars.
lævigata, d'Orbigny.
Reophax difflugiformis, Brady.
Lagena lavigata (Reuss).
fusiformis (Williamson).
lævis (Montagu).
nodulosa, Brady.
Cristellaria sp. (*).
pilulifera, Brady ().
Uvigerina angulosa, Williamson.
scorpiurus, Montfort.
x Globigerina dutertrei, d'Orbigny.
Haplophragmium agglutinans (d'Orbigny).
x Orbulina universa, d'Orbigny.
globigeriniforme (Parker and Pullenia quinqueloba, Reuss.
Jones).
Sphæroidina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
latidorsatum (Bornemann).
Truncatulina lobatula (Walker and Jacob).
nanum, Brady.
Pygmæa, Hantken.
rotulatum, Brady.
Pulvinulina exigua, Brady.
turbinatum, Brady.
Rotalia soldanii, d'Orbigny.
Placopsilina cenomana (d'Orbigny).
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this
Station :
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Rhincalanus gigas, n.sp.
Limacina antarctica, Woodward.
Pleuromma abdominale, Claus.
Saphirinella stylifera (Lubbock).
TUNICATA (Herdraan, Zool. pt. 76).
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Appendicularia sp. (?).
Euphausia antarctica, n.sp.
Thysanoëssa macrura, n.sp.
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Globigerina, Radiolaria,
