634
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Stations 173
AND 173A.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Turbo (Calcar) henicus, n.sp.
Obtained at no other locality.
Fusus (Sipho) libratus, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Ranella fijiensis, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 204A, 100 to 115 fathoms.
Xenophora n.sp. (?).
Cerithium matukense, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Nautilus pompilius, Linné. One living specimen ; obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Scorpæna percoides, Solander. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 163A
and 166.
Setarches fidjiensis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Chaunax pictus, Lowe. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by the
Challenger. Recorded from Japan, Madeira, and New England
coast.
Neobythites macrops, n.sp. One specimen; obtained also at Station 210, 375 fathoms.
Recorded subsequently from Indian Ocean (“ Investigator”).
Macrurus longibarbis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
microlepis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Chlorophthalmus productus, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Scopelus dumerilii, Bleeker. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger.
Congromuræna guttulata, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
In addition to the foregoing; Ventriculites is mentioned in the Station-book.
Excluding Protozoa, about 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at these Stations, belonging to 48 species, of which 38 are new to science, including
representatives of 6 new genera; 23 of the new species and 2 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm mentions several male specimens of Willemæsia [ = Pentacheles]
euthrix, a loricated spiny shrimp (previously taken off Pernambuco and off the Crozets),
Calappa (never taken in such deep water), and Nautilus.
Moseley writes : “A living specimen of Nautilus pompilius came up, which when
placed in water floated with a small portion of the shell out of the water; it was probably
suffering from distention after being brought up from the depths. It moved backwards
