SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
133
STATION VIII.
SCAPHOPODA and GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Dentalium entalis, Linné, var. agile, Sars. Four specimens; for distribution
see Station II.
Nassa (Tritia) brychia, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
Marginella (Glabella) musica, Hinds. Obtained also at Station 142, 150 fathons.
Recorded from West Africa.
In addition to the foregoing, many specimens of Cidaris hystrix are recorded in the
Station-book, and Willemoes-Suhm refers to a new genus of Annelids allied to Sternaspis,
but showing more the characters of true Annelids than that form, the specimens of
which were alive when brought up, and were afterwards mounted on slides.
Excluding the Protozoa, over 50 specimens of invertebrates were procured at this
Station, belonging to about 16 species, of which 6 are new to science, a new genus
being represented ; 2 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
The following species of Pteropoda, Foraminifera, and Diatoms were observed in the Organisms FROM
deposit from this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
THE DEPOSIT.
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Limacina inflata (d'Orbigny).
Limacina lesueuri (d'Orbigny).
bulimoides (d'Orbigny).
Peraclis bispinosa, n.sp.
Clio (Styliola) subula (Quoy and Gaimard).
pyramidata, Linné.
Cavolinia quadridentata (Lesueur).
inflexa (Lesueur).
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22). — The pelagic species, which make up about
58 per cent. of the carbonate of lime present in the deposit, are marked thus x:=
>
9)
Biloculina comata, Brady.
irregularis, d'Orbigny.
ringens (Lamarck).
tubulosa, Costa.
Spiroloculina acutimargo, Brady.
limbata, d'Orbigny.
robusta, Brady.
tenuiseptata, Brady.
sp. (?).
Miliolina auberiana (d'Orbigny).
circularis (Bornemann).
gracilis (d'Orbigny).
oblonga (Montagu).
seminulum (Linné).
Ophthalmidium inconstans, Brady.
Planispirina communis, Seguenza,
Cornuspira foliacea (Philippi).
(SUMMARY OP RESULTS CHALL. EXP.-1893.)
Cornuspira involvens, Reuss.
Pelosina cylindrica, Brady.
Technitella raphanus, Brady ().
Saccammina sphærica, Sars.
Hyperammina ramosa, Brady.
Rhabdammina cornuta, Brady (?).
Haplophragmium emaciatum, Brady.
globigeriniforme (Parker
and Jones).
glomeratum, Brady.
Trochammina pauciloculata, Brady.
proteus, Karrer (8).
squamata, Jones and Parker.
Webbina clavata, Jones and Parker,
Cyclammina pusilla, Brady.
Textularia aspera, Brady.
gramen, d'Orbigny
18
