220
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 47.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Gorgonoid, many Ophiurids, several specimens of Pourtalesia (?), Caudina, and Discina.
Excluding Protozoa, over 80 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 26 species, of which 9 are new to science, including
representatives of 3 new genera ; 3 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
DIATOMACEÆ.—The following species of Diatoms were observed by Mr. Comber in the
deposit from this Station :-
Navicula lyra, Ehrenberg, var. elliptica, A. Schmidt. Coscinodiscus concavus, Ehrenberg.
clavata, Gregory.
curvatulus, Grunow.
smithii, Brebisson,
kutzingii, A. Schmidt.
fusca, Ralfs.
fasciculatus, O'Meara.
didyma, Kutzing.
subtilis, Ehrenberg.
distans, Ralfs.
denarius, A. Schmidt.
Pleurosigma directum, Grunow,
normanii, Gregory.
Cocconeis scutellum, Ehrenberg.
concinnus, W. Smith.
Nitzschia marina, Grunow.
robustus, Greville.
Biddulphia aurita, Brebisson.
marginatus, Ehrenberg.
Triceratium punctatum, Brightwell.
borealis, Bailey.
alternans, Bailey.
centralis, Ehrenberg.
Hemidiscus cuneiformis, Wallich.
oculus-iridis, Ehrenberg.
Actinoptychus undulatus, Ehrenberg.
asteromphalus, Ehrenberg.
areolatus, A. Schmidt.
radiatus, Ehrenberg.
splendens, Ralfs.
obscurus, A. Schmidt.
Actinocyclus spursus (= Eupodiscus, Gregory).
nodulifer, Janisch.
ralfsii, Ralfs.
decrescens, Grunow.
Asteromphalus brookei, Bailey.
crassus, Bailey
Eupodiscus radiatus, Bailey.
elegans, Greville.
Coscinodiscus excentricus, Ehrenberg.
Paralia sulcata, Cleve.
lineatus, Ehrenberg.
Hyalodiscus scoticus, Grunow.
auguste-lineatus, A. Schmidt.
07
STATION 48.
Station 48 (Sounding 106), Bermuda to Halifax (see Chart 9).
May 8, 1873; lat. 43° 4' N., long. 64° 5' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 44°:3; mean for the day, 41°:5.
Temperature of water at surface, 38.0.
Depth, 51 fathoms; deposit, rock, gravel, stones, &c.
At 5.5 A.M. stopped and sounded in 51 fathoms. At 7 A.M. put over dredge, which
came up
about noon. The dredge-bag was torn, and contained nothing, but the tangles
were loaded with animals. In the afternoon most of the ship’s company were occupied in
fishing, and probably about 100 cod were taken, which proved a welcome addition to the
