734
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
ARAFURA SEA.
>
Molleria cornuta, Cleve.
Lauderia annulata, Cleve.
moseleyana, Castracane.
Rhizosolenia robusta, Norman.
indica, Peragallo.
arafurensis, Castracane.
striata, Greville (= R. imbricata,
Brightwell).
calcar-avis, Schultze.
cochlea, Brun.
styliformis, Brightwell.
var, polydactyla, Peragallo.
temperei, Peragallo.
stolterfothii, Peragallo.
Guinardia flaccida, Peragallo (=Rhizosolenia,
Castraeane).
Cerataulina bergonii, Peragallo.
Chætoceros boreale, Bailey.
peruvianum, Brightwell.
lorenzianum, Cleve.
coarctatum, Lauder.
diversum, Cleve.
incisor, Ralfs.
protuberans, Lauder.
javanicum, Cleve.
secundum, Cleve.
compressum, Lauder.
distans, Cleve.
sp. (?).
Bacteriastrum varians, Lauder (incl. B, spirillum,
Castracane).
wallichii, Ralfs, hispida,
Castracane.
brevispinum, Castracane.
var.
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Euphausia latifrons, n.sp.
Siriella gracilis, Dana.
COPEPODA (Brady, Zool. pt. 23).
Calanus valgus, n.sp.
Eucalanus setiger, n.sp-
Undina vulgaris, Dana.
Euchæta prestandrea, Philippi.
Temora dubia (Lubbock).
Centropages furcatus (Dana).
Pontella acuta (Dana).
kröyeri, n.sp.
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
Lucifer typus, Thompson.
reynaudii, M.-Edwards.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
Tetrathyrus arafuræ, n.sp.
Amphithyrus sp. (?).
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65 ).
Clio (Creseis) acicula (Rang).
The tow-nets were filled with a yellowish slime, which proved to be a mass of
Diatoms, having the same general aspect as those obtained on March 3, 1874, towards
the Antarctic, but the species were different ; Rhizosolenia was the most abundant. The
Diatoms were sometimes massed together, looking like some of the compound Radiolaria ;
one jelly-mass observed seemed to be covered with small cylindrical forms, containing
inside of these two or three lanceolate or fusiform varieties, which exhibited motions.
The masses were of a brown-green colour, and were sufficiently numerous to colour the
water to some extent. Many of the Diatoms had attached to them Epistylis,
Carchesium, and Vorticella with contractile threads, Stentor sessile on the large forms,
all living and very beautiful under the microscope. Rhizosolenia became less plentiful,
and species of Coscinodiscus more abundant, on approaching the Arrou Islands, and
