676
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 181.
Cleodora compressa, Souleyet ( = young
of Cavolinia trispinosa).
Clio (Creseis) acicula (Rang).
(Hyalocylix) striata (Rang).
(Styliola) subula, Quoy and
Gaimard.
chaptali (Souleyet).
Cuvierina columnella (Rang).
Cavolinia trispinosa (Lesueur).
quadridentata (Lesueur).
longirostris (Lesueur).
inflexa (Lesueur).
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Salpa cordiformis-zonaria, Quoy
and Gaimard—Pallas.
cylindrica, Cuvier.
runcinata-fusiformis, Chamisso
-Cuvier.
Appendicularia sp. (?).
In addition, the following are recorded in the note-books :-Pyrocystis, Peridinium
in chains, Oscillatoriaceæ, Foraminifera (Globigerina in prodigious numbers, and
Orbulina), Acanthometra and other Radiolaria, small Actinian (Nautactis), Diphyes and
other Siphonophoræ, Sagitta, Annelid larvæ (Aphroditacean), Cyllopus, Oxycephalus,
Rhabdosoma, Hyperia, Squillid larvæ, Sergestes, Lucifer, Phyllosoma, young Caridids,
Zoëæ, Megalopæ, larval Lamellibranchs, Atlanta, Pterotrachea, Macgillivraya,
Theceurybia [= Halopsyche] gaudichaudi with larvæ, small Cephalopod and cuttle-
fish
eggs in strings, Pyrosoma, young fishes (Pleuronectids, Leptocephalids, and
Scopelids). The otter trawl was towed for some time from the lower boom; it was
never far beneath the surface, and when hauled in was found to contain a mass of jelly-
like matter with strings of red spots, which turned out to be the eggs of a Cephalopod.
Several sharks were seen, and one was caught, apparently belonging to the same species
as those taken on July 14 and August 3 (Carcharias lamia).
Willemoes-Suhm writes: “On the surface the animals were as plentiful as we found
them north and south of the equator in the Atlantic. Halobates and Phyllirhoë have
not been observed, whereas the transparent Pleuronectidæ have made their appearance,
of which, besides the common form, there is another distinguished by a long filament on
the forehead and a more elongated body, the specimens of which were perfectly
symmetrical. In the Pacific we found the Heteropod Calcarella and some Pteropods
not taken in the Atlantic. Of the latter I may mention the curious form taken between
Sydney and Wellington (Pelagia alba ?) [= Taonius suhmi], Theceurybia [ = Halopsyche]
gaudichaudi, and a small Cymbulid, which has been very common since leaving the
Kermadec Islands; I think we have also got its larvæ. There were also larvæ of a
Pneumodermopsis (?) [= Dexiobranchæa] with peculiar cutaneous organs, which in some
may correspond with the organs described by Gegenbaur in Pnemodermon [= Dexio-
branchæa] ciliatum. Macgillivraya has also made its appearance, and will henceforth
probably be very common. Tomopteris was absent or very rare. Alciopa was always
present, and also young Terebellids, which sometimes floated about with a gelatinous
;
