96
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
RANEAN.
;
ANIMALS ranean parted at a depth of 1200 fathoms, and was raised for repair under the direction
ATTACHED TO
of the electrical engineer, Fleeming Jenkin. Forty miles of cable were drawn up, bring-
SUBMARINE CABLE
MEDITER ing with it a quantity of Coral and other organisms, a few specimens of which were sent
to Professor Allman, who made a list of fifteen varieties of animal life, including eggs of
a Cephalopod, Grantia, Plumularia, Gorgonia, Alcyonium, Cellepora, Retepora, Eschara,
Salicornaria, Ascara, Lima, and Serpula. Wyville Thomson says that, according to
Jenkin's private journal which he was allowed to consult, a specimen of Caryophyllia, a
true Coral, was found adhering to the cable at 1200 fathoms, the very point where it
had snapped. Some portions of the cable were subsequently examined by A. Milne-
Edwards,' who showed that the animals were living at the bottom, for their soft parts
were preserved, and the bases of the Corals, &c., were moulded on the inequalities of the
cable. Among the Mollusca were Ostrea cochlear, found in many parts of the Mediter-
ranean ; Pecten opercularis, common in the Mediterranean, which was found adhering to
the cable at a depth of 1100 fathoms (?) and was highly coloured ; Pecten testæ; a small
somewhat rare comb-shell; and two Gasteropods. Corals were more numerous than
Mollusca, including a species apparently identical with Caryophyllia arcuata, found fossil
in the upper strata of Piedmont and at Messina, and another species of the same genus,
Caryophyllia electrica, quite similar to a Pliocene fossil found by Deshayes at Donera,
Algeria. Besides these, two Serpulæ, some Bryozoa, and a few Gorgoniæ were observed.
The result of these observations proved that forms till then known only as fossils existed
at the bottom of modern seas. In directing the attention of geologists to these dis-
coveries, Prestwich shows the connection between some of the species collected and the
geological strata :-
Ostrea cochlear, Coralline Crag.
Pecten opercularis, Coralline and Red Crag.
Pecten testa,
Monodonta limbata, Pliocene strata of Italy.
Fusus laminosus,
Previous to these observations the existence of living animals at considerable depths
was still regarded by many naturalists as doubtful; it was held to be uncertain whether
the creatures found adhering to the sounding line or caught in the sounding machine
came really from the bottom or were captured in intermediate waters. The discovery
by Fleeming Jenkin of members of the higher groups living attached to the cable
1 Observations sur l'existence de divers Mollusques et Zoophytes à de très grandes profondeurs dans la mer Méd-
iterranée, Ann. Sci. Nat., Zool. ser. 4, tom. xv. pp. 149–157, 1861.
: Wyville Thomson (Depths of the Sea, p. 29) states that according to Jenkin's notes only one or two species, parti-
cularly Caryophyllia borealis, were found adhering to the cable at depths exceeding 1000 fathoms. From that depth
Jenkin himself took off specimens of Caryophyllia. Thomson suspects that specimens from lesser depths were mixed
with the deeper ones in the series examined by Milne-Edwards.
3 Presidential Address, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc., vol. xxvii., 1871.
--
-
