754
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Stations 194
AND 194A.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Murex (Haustellum) sp. (?). One specimen (200 fathoms).
CEPHALOPODA (Hoyle, Zool. pt. 44).
Spirula peronii, Lamarck. One specimen (360 fathoms); shells obtained also at
the surface in North Atlantic, Raine Island, and off New Guinea.
BRACHIOPODA (Davidson, Zool. pt. 1).
Discina atlantica, King. (200 to 360 fathoms); obtained also at Stations 106, 237,
246, 271, and 300.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pts. 6 and 57).
Peristethus murrayi, n.sp. One specimen (200 fathoms); obtained at no other locality.
Recorded subsequently from Indian Ocean ("Investigator ”).
Ceratias bispinosus, n.sp. One specimen (360 fathoms); obtained at no other locality.
Gonostoma elongatum, n.sp.
One specimen
(360 fathoms); obtained also at
Station 191.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-Five
specimens of an Ophiurid with conical body, two Holothurians, Aphroditaceans in Sponge,
two specimens of Alpheus in Sponge, and a Macrurid fish.
Excluding Protozoa, over 50 specimens of invertebrates and ishes were obtained
at these Stations, belonging to about 39 species, of which 24 are new to science,
including representatives of 5 new genera; 16 of the new species and 3 new genera
were not obtained elsewhere.
The trawl brought up a specimen of the long-sought Spirula animal. It showed
no signs of life, and some of the naturalists thought it might have been dead before
capture by the trawl. Adams described the genus and enumerated all the specimens
hitherto obtained. Owen obtained the specimen upon which he founded the species
Lituus reticulatus from the Sulu Sea (H.M.S. Samarang ”). Our animal, taken near
that locality, has been described by Professor Huxley as Spirula peroni, Lamarck.
It is probable that Spirula swims and creeps along the bottom in deep water,
adhering to stones and hiding in holes when anything like a trawl or dredge comes
to disturb it. Only on this hypothesis can the scarcity of the animal be accounted for ;
it has never been taken in the Moluccas, where the natives have orders to look out
for it, and at Cape York and Fiji the natives declare that the shell has no animal at all.
1 A description of this specimen is in course of preparation by Dr. Paul Pelseneer (see Index).
