592
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 166.
Macrurus australis (Richards). Several specimens ; obtained at no other locality by
the Challenger. Recorded from Port Arthur and New Zealand.
denticulatus, Richards. One specimen ; obtained also at Station 170,
520 fathoms. Recorded from New Zealand.
99
Excluding Protozoa, over 100 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained at
this Station, belonging to 19 species, of which 10 are new to science, including
representatives of 2 new genera ; 6 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “Two specimens, 140 and 110 mm. in length, of an Astacid
were brought up. They evidently belonged to the genus Nephrops, having all the characters
of the Astacids, especially the scale on the outer antennæ and the ridge across the pereion,
but in addition a long rostrum and very much prolonged anterior chelæ. In this species,
which was of a pure milk-white colour, the joints of the large chelæ had a reddish-brown
colour, like the borders of the abdominal rings ; in spirit the white colour gradually
changed into a dirty reddish colour. The two hauls of the trawl brought up the same
things : lobsters, shrimps, shells, and fishes.
Cælothamnus sedecimalis was observed among the Radiolaria in the deposit from
this Station.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in this
locality :
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Staurotholus tetrastylus, Haeckel.
Euphausia pellucida, Dana.
Lonchostaurus bifidus, Haeckel.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Castanidium bromleyi, Haeckel.
Salpa costata - tilesii, Quoy and
Gaimard-Cuvier.
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67).
cordiformis - zonaria, Quoy
Parapronoë clausoides, n.sp.
and Gaimard—Pallas.
In addition the following species are recorded from the surface between Sydney and
Wellington, the exact locality not noted :-
AMPHIPODA (Stebbing, Zool. pt. 67). FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78)
Anchylomera sp.(?)
Platystethus huttonii, Günther.
Hemerocaetes acanthorhynchus
MACRURA (Spence Bate, Zool. pt. 52).
(Forst).
Sergestes parvidens, n.sp.
Centriscus scolopax, Linné.
Halaphya elongata, n.g., n.sp.
