322
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 100.
At 1.30 P.M. shortened and furled sails, and got up steam to sound. Sounded in
2425 fathoms. Attached dingey by line, and sent cutter away to try current, which was
running at the surface at the rate of half a mile per hour eastward. At 3 P.M. obtained
serial temperatures down to 1500 fathoms. The carbonic acid was determined in the
surface water, and amounted to 43.2 milligrammes per litre. At 4.30 P.M. picked up line
from dingey ; line carried away in heaving in, and a thermometer was lost. At 5 P.M.
cutter returned. At 6.20 P.M. completed temperature observations, and at 6.30 P.M.
made all plain sail. At night sea phosphorescent.
Distance at noon from St. Paul's Rocks, 879 miles. Made good 145 miles. Amount
of current 28 miles, direction S. 45° E.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface in this
locality :-
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Euphausia pellucida, Dana.
Pyrosoma atlanticum, Péron.
gracilis, Dana.
giganteum, Lesueur.
NUDIBRANCHIATA (Bergh, Zool. pt. 26).
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 78).
Phylliroë atlantica, Bergh.
Acura pelagica, Adams.
Young Pleuronectids.
Leptocephalus morrisii (young).
PTEROPODA (Pelseneer, Zool. pt. 65).
Cavolinia uncinata (Rang).
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “The sea was more luminous than ever, due chiefly to
the presence of innumerable specimens of Pyrocystis, which made the water quite
yellow. Foraminifera were also very abundant, and Peridinium (tripos and another
species), which is known to cause phosphorescence when in great quantities, was present.
Copepods, Squillerichthus, and various other Crustacea, were taken in the tow-net,
making it quite slimy when hauled in. I think that Corycæus, Acura, Pneumonoderma,
Cranchia, and the Pleuronectids do not belong to the North Atlantic surface-fauna, but
that we have now entered within the limits of the South Atlantic fauna.'
August 16, 1873.
The phosphorescence was not so brilliant, and the tow-net procured only some
Pyrocystis, Foraminifera, and a few Crustacea. Some large sea-birds with white
plumage (Sula fusca) were soaring about, keeping very close to the water ; they were
not following the ship, but fishing.
