516
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 157.
Coscinodiscus denarius, A. Schmidt.
marginatus, Ehrenberg.
minor, Ehrenberg.
kutzingii, A. Schmidt, var. glacialis,
Grunow.
denticulatus, Castracane.
normanni, Gregory.
stellaris, Roper.
africanus, Janisch.
var, wallichiana, Grunow.
centralis, Ehrenberg.
convexus, A. Schmidt.
Coscinodiscus oculus-iridis, Ehrenberg.
asteromphalus, Ehrenberg.
concinnus, Smith.
elegantulus, Greville.
rotula, Grunow.
apollinis, Ehrenberg, var. compacta,
Rattray.
impolitus, Rattray (= C. antarcticus,
Castracane).
Melosira sp. (?).
Brunia mirabilis, Tempère.
92
.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species of Radiolaria and Diatomaceæ are
recorded from the surface at this Station :-
RADIOLARIA (Haeckel, Zool. pt. 40).—In striking contrast to the wealth of forms
in the deposit at this Station is the uniformity of the Radiolarian surface fauna. This
doubtless arises from the fact that the tow-nets were only dragged through a relatively
short distance of the surface waters, whereas the deposit at the bottom represents the
accumulation of forms which have fallen from the surface during an immense period of
time. The absence of some species of Acantharia and Phæodaria in the deposit, when
compared with their relative abundance in the surface-net gatherings, is to be accounted
for by the structure and composition of the skeletons, which are more readily dissolved
after the death of the animal than other Radiolaria. Certain species of Acantharia and
Phæodaria are the most abundant here, and represented by numerous individuals. Of the
Acantharia the most abundant are Acanthonia claparedei, Acanthostaurus purpurascens,
and Amphilonche lanceolata, and of the Phæodaria, the species of Challengeron.
Amphilonche lanceolata, Haeckel.
Porocapsa coronodon, Haeckel.
III. NASSELLARIA.
Dictyospyris tetrastoma, Ehrenberg.
Cyrtocalpis ovulum, Haeckel.
Cornutella clathrata, Ehrenberg.
I. SPUMELLARIA.
a. Sphæroidea.
Styptosphæra spongiacea, Haeckel.
Acanthosphæra antarctica, Haeckel.
Cromyomma perspicuum, Haeckel.
Rhizosphæra trigonacantha, Haeckel.
antarctica, Haeckel.
b. Discoidea.
Porodiscus flustrella, Haeckel.
Stylodictya multispina, Haeckel.
Euchitonia muelleri, Haeckel.
Stylotrochus challengeri, Haeckel.
II. ACANTHARIA.
Acanthonia claparedei, Haeckel.
Acanthostaurus purpurascens, Haeckel.
IV. PHÆODARIA.
Dictyocha stapedia, Haeckel.
Distephanus speculum, Haeckel.
Aulodendron antarcticum, Haeckel.
Auloscena penicillus, Haeckel.
Challengeron pearceyi, Haeckel.
swirei, Murray.
balfouri, Murray.
richardsii, Haeckel.
17
