534
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
Station 161.
Cellularia cuspidata, Busk. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Australia and New Zealand.
Emma crystallina, Gray. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Australia, New Zealand, Magellan Strait,
and Campbell's Island.
Caberea rudis, Busk. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded
from Bass Strait.
Carbasea dissimilis, Busk. Obtained also at Stations 162, 163A, and 196, 38 to
825 fathoms. Recorded from Australia and Tasmania.
Retepora crassa, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 162, 38 fathoms. [1
Retepora porcellana, MacGillivray].
victoriensis, n.sp. (?). Obtained also at Station 162 and Japan (var.
japonica), 8 to 50 fathoms. [Waters calls it Retepora
monilifera, MacGillivray, form munita, Hincks].
Mucronella pyriformis, n.sp. Obtained also at Station 162, 38 fathoms. [Waters
calls it Bracebridgia geometrica (Reuss)].
simplicissima, n.sp. (?). Obtained at no other locality.
Schizoporella cecilii (Audouin). Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Cellepora bilabiata, n.sp. (?). Obtained at no other locality.
Lunularia capulus, Busk. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Recorded from Cape Capricorn.
Crisia acropora, Busk. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger. Recorded
from Australia.
Hornera foliacea, MacGillivray. Obtained also at Port Jackson, 35 to 38 fathoms.
Recorded from Australia.
Amathia spiralis, Lamouroux. Obtained also at Stations 162 and 163A, 38 and
150 fathoms. Recorded from Australia.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Alcyonium, Annelid, Trigla, and Platessa.
Excluding Protozoa, about 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 71 species, of which 35 are new to science, including
representatives of 6 new genera; 27 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Subm writes : “Only one or two Annelid fragments came up. Polyzoa,
especially Catenicellidæ and Horneræ, came up in great quantities. Among the
Crustacea there were a very small specimen of Mysis, or a closely-allied genus, a Cuma,
1
