478
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
KERGUELEN.
Chorizocormus reticulatus, n.g., n.sp. Several specimens (28 to 30 fathoms);
obtained at no other locality. Only species of the genus.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Raja eatoni, Günther. One specimen (depth not given); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger. Recorded from Kerguelen.
murrayi, n.sp. Five specimens (depth not given); obtained at no other
locality.
Zanclorhynchus spinifer, n.g., n.sp. One specimen (depth not given); obtained at
no other locality. Only species of the genus.
Chanichthys rhinoceratus, Richards. (Depth not given); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
Notothenia cyaneobrancha, Richards. (Depth not given); obtained at no other
locality by the Challenger.
mizops, n.sp. Several specimens (120 fathoms); obtained at no other
locality.
squamifrons, n.sp. Several specimens (depth not given); obtained at
no other locality.
acuta, n.sp. One specimen (depth not given); obtained at no other
locality.
Murænolepis marmoratus, n.g., n.sp. One specimen (depth not given); obtained at
no other locality. Only species of the genus.
In the foregoing list 343 species are enumerated, of which 224 are new to science,
including representatives of 30 new genera; 162 of the new species and 15 of the new
genera were not obtained elsewhere during the cruise.
Willemoes-Suhm writes, with reference to these dredgings around Kerguelen :-" The
prevailing animals in the shallow-water dredging on January 17 were Echinodermata,
next to which Sponges and Polyzoa were represented by a considerable number of genera
and species. There were also a large simple Ascidian and a small composite one; simple
Ascidians were apparently far from numerous here, nor, indeed, were they abundant at any
place where we have dredged in shallow water,-an interesting fact, if confirmed as we go
Annelids were represented especially by numerous Aphroditaceans, belonging
probably to the genera Aphrodita and Hermione, and a few Terebellids; there were also
two Nemerteans, one a particularly large one with immense mouth. The almost total
absence of higher Crustacea in the shallow-water fauna of these Antarctic islands is very
astonishing. Near Marion Island a caridid shrimp was taken in great numbers, while
Many of the Challenger discoveries were anticipated by the publication of the results of the subsequent “ Transit
of Venus” and “Gazelle" expeditions.
on.
1
