54
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
MERCATOR's
CHARTS.
METHODS OF
DETERMINING
LONGITUDES.
tenth degree south latitude, at the horizon of Nuremberg. But a more important modifi-
cation was introduced by G. Mercator, who, towards the middle of the sixteenth century,
invented his well-known method of representing the whole surface in true bearings, which
was destined to render such signal services to navigation. The researches of Ed. Wright,
relating to the theory and construction of these charts, and those of Henry Bond and
Gregory (1668), added to the advantages this method offered to navigators. This carto-
graphic process was created at a time when marine charts were far from being complete.
Henceforth it was no longer necessary to trouble about finding a system of projection,
and attention could be devoted to improving the charts in all points useful to mariners.
Although the science of geography made rapid advances, owing to the great voyages
of discovery, still the progress of those branches of geodesy relating to map-making was
slow. Distinct advances, however, are to be observed in the Cosmographia of Sebastian
Münster as early as 1544, and in the triangulation of Snellius in 1915. The methods
already known for determining longitudes were developed, while other methods were
invented, and when the astrolabe was replaced by the sextant (octant), invented, it has
been said, by Newton about 1700 and quite independently by Hadley in 1731, mariners
possessed the means of establishing the position of places with tolerable accuracy.
The seventeenth century was a remarkable period for astronomical and mathematical
studies, on which the exact knowledge of the globe rests, and by the end of that century
sufficiently numerous astronomical observations had been made to determine the position
of many points on the earth's surface, and hence to allow of the errors in the charts
being rectified. The great French geographer, Guillaume Delisle, undertook this herculean
task, and his work was continued by Bourguignon d'Anville, who was 29
age
when Delisle died in 1726. D'Anville was superior to his predecessor, especially as
regards workmanship.
Progress was soon manifest in the indication of depths, hydrographic signs, the first
meridian, the scale, the orthography, the type, &c. As to hydrographic signs, crosses
were used to show reefs and rocky bottoms; sandbanks and shallows were marked with
dotted lines or masses of dots ; other hydrographic signs were introduced at a later
period. Marine charts, as compared with land maps, present some differences. In marine
charts the sea is left white, the coasts alone are distinctly marked, and the mountains
inland are only represented when of service to the mariner for finding out his bearings ;
on the sea area are shown the soundings, the shallows, the currents, the tides, the
compass, &c.
&c. Even at an early period note was taken of the nature and the colour of
the bottom of the sea, for these characteristics might be of service to seamen in a fog
as denoting the approach to land.
years of
HYDROGRAPHIC
SIGNS IMPROVED,
· Mercator's map on this increasing cylindrical projection was first published in 1569.
. Certain Errors in Navigation, London, 1610.
3 The sextant was also invented independently by Godfrey of Philadelphia in 1730.
