SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
23
geography. Although the Romans extended their rule over a great extent of coast
bordering on the Atlantic, they never organised any voyages of discovery into
this outer sea, after the manner of the Carthaginians and Greeks. They have given
no definite information concerning the coasts of Africa, and relatively little about the
shores of Europe. They were essentially a warlike and practical people, with politicians,
jurists, encyclopædists, and historians, but few philosophers who occupied themselves
with the operations of nature; the commercial stimulus was awanting to induce them to
undertake voyages of exploration. Horace's system of winds, several passages of Virgil
on astro-meteorology, the statements concerning geological phenomena in the works of
Ovid, and notices of the action of water in modifying the surface of the globe in
the work on architecture by Vitruvius, all show a spirit of observation ; but, generally
speaking, if we deduct what the Romans had received from the Greeks, there is little
relating to oceanography that can be regarded as original among the writings of Latin
authors. As Vivien de St. Martin remarks, however, never was a period more favourable
than the reign of Augustus for the composition of a great work on descriptive geography.
The Roman rule, spread as it was over more than half of the then known world, and
attached to the remainder by political and commercial relations, created a propitious
state of matters for an undertaking of this kind by furnishing to the geographer a ready
means of investigation. A man appeared to carry out this work, for which the time
was ripe, but this man was a Greek, Strabo,' who produced the most important extant
geographical work of antiquity.
This celebrated geographer deals in a special way with problems relating to STRABO.
oceanography. All things on the crust of the earth, according to Strabo, are in a con-
tinual state of change, and the present relief of the surface of the globe is due to these
modifications. Under the influence of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions the land is
subjected to movements, oceanic waters invade the land when the bed of the ocean rises,
and they retire when the bed sinks ; besides, these movements can be more easily produced
beneath the sea, where the earth is, as it were, kneaded and made plastic by the water.
He states that pelagic islands are of volcanic origin ; the greater islands, situated near
the land, have been detached from the continents by dislocations; the continents
themselves are subject to oscillations, and might have been raised from the bosoms of the
various seas. Running water works profound modifications on the surface of the land,
but these changes are conditioned by the nature of the country through which streams
and rivers pass. Torrents descending from mountains have a great erosive power, and the His Views on the
SCULPTURING OF
same is the case with rivers which flow over soft or sandy grounds; both spread out on
the plains and transport to the sea immense quantities of alluvial matter. The sediment
THE CONTINENTS.
1 Born about 60 B.C. The year of his birth cannot be determined with certainty.
2 In this résumé of Strabo's doctrines we have followed H. Fischer, Ueber einige Gegenstände der physischen
Geographie bei Strabon, als Beitrag zur Geschichte der alten Geographie, Wernigerode, 1879.
