SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
7
their progress in astronomy.
astronomy. Perhaps they also kept this knowledge secret, for there are
many indications that they were possessed of many of its practical applications to the art
of navigation. At the dawn of history, and before all the other peoples of antiquity,
we find them sailing over the open sea without a compass or coast to guide them. They
even navigated the open ocean at night. The Phænicians did this before the time of
Homer, while the Greeks and Romans, for a long time after that period, never lost sight
of the coasts, and sailed only during the day."
The notions with reference to the sea inherited by the Greeks from the Phænicians The Greeks.
appear to have been extremely vague, even regarding the Mediterranean, which must have
been the best known to them. Greek philosophers and navigators first directed attention
to the scientific problems of the ocean, and aided in solving them by their progress in
branches of knowledge connected with physical geography. Their influence was profound,
and traces of the oceanographical ideas of the Greeks survived for centuries in literature.
The Greeks, so admirably endowed in most respects, had not a sufficient number of
accurate observations to form a solid basis for induction ; they did not possess the rigorous
methods of modern science, which do not admit of deductions beyond the range of the
observations. Their theoretical conceptions cannot, however, be passed over, any more
than the ancient Greek myths relative to the earliest voyages of their race. Popular
myths,” says Humboldt, “mixed with history and geography, do not altogether belong
to the ideal world. If vagueness be one of their distinctive traits, if the symbols which
cover the reality be wrapped in a veil more or less thick, the myths closely associated
with them show, nevertheless, the first dawn of cosmography. The statements of
primitive history and geography are not entirely ingenious fictions; the opinions which
have been formed about the actual world are reflected in them."2
The first step in the geographical history of the Greeks is the legendary voyage of MYTHICAL
the Argonauts, although this myth gives no certain facts regarding the physical geography
ARGONAUTS.
of the sea. The poetical elaboration of the story took place, according to Grote, between
600 and 500 years before the Christian era. If the voyage has any foundation in fact,
it was probably as much a Phoenician as a Greek adventure in search of gold. All that
can be said with reference to the poetical accounts of the wars of Troy is that, at the Wars of Troy.
period immortalised by the genius of Homer, the Greeks were so familiar with navigation
as to be able to transport an army across the Ægean Sea as far as the Hellespont.*
1 The Phoenicians steered by the Pole star, which, from this circumstance, was named by the Greeks the Phænician
star (Enc. Brit., art. “ Phænicia”). The Greeks, it is said, steered by the Great Bear (Bunbury, op. cit., vol. i. p. 34).
? Humboldt, op. cit., tom. i. p. 112.
3 The name argo is possibly of Phænician origin (the Semetic word arek, long), having reference to the “long ships”
or fighting ships as distinguished from the round or cargo ships. The argo may have been the first long ship built by
the Greeks. The voyage of Argo is readily enough understood as the attempt of a people, ignorant of geography
and physics, to combine in one narrative the Phænician voyages in every quarter of the then known world, (see John
Kenrick, History and Antiquities of Phænicia, p. 92, London, 1855). Alexandrian critics confused the story by transferring
the wanderings of Ulysses to the Outer Ocean, while retaining the idea of this ocean such as it was known to them.
* Bunbury, op. cit., vol. i. p. 17.
VOYAGE OF
