774
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 199.
Density at 60° F. :-
.
Surface,
50 fathoms,
100
1.02545
. 1.02591
. 1.02589
200 fathoms,
Bottom,
. 1.02570
. 1.02535
.
pth, 2600 fathoms; deposit, Volcanic Mud, containing no carbonate of lime (see
Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.).
At daylight observed the high land of Mindanao Island on the starboard bow.
At 7.45 A.M. stopped to sound. At 8 A.M. sounded in 2600 fathoms. Obtained serial
temperatures down to 300 fathoms. The carbonic acid was determined in bottom water,
and amounted to 52º4 milligrammes per litre. At 11.20 A.M. completed observations and
proceeded under steam, there being hardly any breeze. While sounding in the morning a
boat was lowered for surface collecting. At 10 P.M. observed land on the port bow, the
summit of Mount Matanae, Basilan Island. Several swallows were seen about the ship,
apparently in an exhausted condition, and two were caught with the hand.
Sibago Island distant at noon, 90 miles. Made good 103 miles.
ORGANISMS FROM
SURFACE-NETS.
Surface Organisms.—The following species are recorded from the surface at this
Station :
SCHIZOPODA (Sars, Zool. pt. 37).
Anchialus pusillus, n.sp.
TUNICATA (Herdman, Zool. pt. 76).
Salpa democratica-mucronata,
Forskåhl.
Mr. Murray went away in the dingey while sounding, and found the whole sea filled
with Algæ, presenting the appearance of minutely-chopped hay when looked at with the
water-glass. These Oscillatoriaceæ were of various kinds, the most abundant being a
curled or sinuous variety, while some were quite straight, about half an inch in length,
and others assumed the form of stars and faggots. There were also small masses of
transparent jelly-like matter of various shapes, mostly spherical or cylindrical, containing
inside small Diatoms like Navicula, Coccospheres, Rhabdospheres, and small Polycystinæ,
and frequently attached to the outside the above-mentioned forms of Oscillatoriaceæ and
other foreign bodies, including some Infusoria. These jelly or colloid masses rendered
the tow-net quite sticky, as though covered with a coating of thin glue; they were
generally about the size of peas, reminding one of the small bodies observed on February
17 in the South Indian Ocean. These organisms seemed to extend as far down as could
be seen with the water-glass, and no animals were noticed moving about. In the tow-
net sent down from the ship to a depth of 60 or 80 fathoms, however, were a great many
things and few of these Algæ, which would therefore seem to be more or less confined to
