SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
379
Leptoclinum speciosum, var. asperum, nov. Several specimens (7 to 20 fathoms); Bahia.
obtained also at Station 142, 150 fathoms.
annectens, n.sp. One specimen (shallow water); obtained at no other
locality.
Diplosoma macdonaldi, n.sp. One specimen (shallow water); obtained at no other
locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 6).
Rhypticus arenatus, C.V. Obtained at no other locality by the Challenger.
Hippocampus villosus, n.sp. (7 to 20 fathoms); obtained at no other locality.
In the foregoing list 127 species are enumerated, of which 57 are new to science,
including representatives of 4 new genera; 50 of the new species and 1 new genus were
not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes, with regard to these dredgings by Thomson and Murray in
shallow water off Bahia : “No fornis of extraordinary size or development have been
found in the bay, but simply those representatives of the marine classes as might be
found anywhere in the Atlantic, while it seemed to me that there was not such a great
variety as in the West Indies, where the large Strombus, Corals, and Calappa are so
conspicuous. Several species of Comatula and Ophiurids seemed to be the commonest
Echinoderms, and Astrophyton and Mellita were associated with them in sandy places.
Small cherry-like siliceous Sponges, and other Sponges, were found covered by Alcyonium
and Polyzoa. One Sipunculid and some large specimens of Sabella in soft tubes were
taken, and among the Crustacea were several genera of Maiids and Cancerids, an animal
allied to Ranina, the frog-crab, large Pagurids, Porcellana, Alpheus, &c. No Brachiopods
were found, but many small Gasteropods, as Turritella, Conus, Bulla, and a large dead
Fusus-like shell. Very fine specimens of a Plumularian, with Caprella on the branches,
were taken.”
The departure from Bahia was somewhat hastened owing to one of the crew, who had Yellow Fever.
been sleeping on shore, having caught yellow fever, from which he afterwards died.
After leaving Bahia the Challenger proceeded to the southward until September 30,
without sounding or dredging, as it was desirable to get into cool weather at once to
risk of yellow fever spreading amongst the ship's company.
avoid any
STATION 129.
Station 129 (Sounding 212), Bahia to Tristan da Cunha (see Chart 16 and
Diagram 5).
September 30, 1873; lat. 20° 13' S., long. 35° 19' W.
Temperature of air at noon, 75°.5 ; mean for the day, 730.9.
