492
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
STATION 151.
In addition to the foregoing, the Station-book records also several Sponges.
Excluding Protozoa, over 200 specimens of invertebrates were obtained at this
Station, belonging to about 79 species, of which 43 are new to science, including
representatives of 6 new genera ; 13 of the new species were not obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “ Most of the animals taken by the dredge belong to the
Kerguelen fauna, as was to be expected.
It
may be noted that Serolis, which has been
recently taken in nearly every haul, was not present. There were a spiny Amphipod,
Sphæroma, Arcturus, large specimen of Phyllodoce, fine specimens of Serpula in jointed
tubes, Terebella, Hermione, and several species of Polyzoa.”
ORGANISMS FROM
THE DEPOSIT.
The following species of Foraminifera and Diatoms were observed in the deposit from
this Station (see also Murray and Renard, Deep-Sea Deposits Chall. Exp.) :-
FORAMINIFERA (Brady, Zool. pt. 22).—The only pelagic species is Globigerina
bulloides.
Biloculina elongata, d'Orbigny.
sphæra, d'Orbigny.
Miliolina seminulum (Linné).
subrotunda (Montagu).
Articulina funalis, Brady.
Reophax scorpiurus, Montfort.
Haplophragmium canariense (d'Orbigny).
Bulimina aculeata, d'Orbigny.
Virgulina schreibersiana, Czjzek.
Bolivina punctata, d’Orbigny.
Cassidulina crassa, d'Orbigny.
Lagena acuta (Reuss).
acuticosta, Reuss.
apiculata, Reuss.
clavata (d’Orbigny).
gracillima (Seguenza).
interrupta, Williamson.
Lagena lævigata (Reuss).
lævis (Montagu).
marginata (Walker and Boys).
var. semimarginata, Reuss.
squamosa (Montagu).
staphyllearia (Schwager).
striata (d'Orbigny).
sulcata (Walker and Jacob).
Uvigerina tenuistriata, Reuss.
x Globigerina bulloides, d'Orbigny.
Pullenia quinqueloba, Reuss.
Patellina corrugata, Williamson.
Discorbina parisiensis (d'Orbigny).
rosacea (d'Orbigny).
vilardeboana (d'Orbigny).
Truncatulina lobatula (Walker and Jacob).
6
DIATOMACEÆ.—The following species of Diatoms were observed by Mr. Comber :-
Navicula distans, Ralfs.
Pleurosigma rigidum, Smith.
Cocconeis costata, Gregory, var. kerguelensis, Petit.
arctica, Grunow.
Nitzschia constricta, Gregory, similis,
Grunow.
marina, Grunow.
Grammatophora marina, Kutzing.
Trachysphenia australis, Petit.
Thalassiothrix longissima, Grunow, var, antarctica,
Cleve and Grunow.
Gephyria gigantea, Greville.
Isthmia enervis, Ehrenberg.
Biddulphia roperiana, Greville.
weissflugii, Grunow.
Hemiaulus antarcticus, Ehrenberg.
var.
