50
THE VOYAGE OF H.M.S. CHALLENGER.
-BUACHE.
surface as far as the Indian Isles, the Philippines, and China. (3) The Hyperborean
Ocean (Oceanus Hyperboræus), the north
Hyperboræus), the north ocean stretching around the Arctic
lands. (4) Oceanus Australis surrounding the Austral continent, of which the Indian
Ocean is only a part. Other geographers, adds Varenius, divide the ocean into four
parts, and adopt the following subdivisions :--(1) The Atlantic, to the north of the
equator; (2) the Aethiopian Ocean, to the south of the equator; (3) the Pacific Ocean ;
and (4) the Indian Ocean. But he does not seem to attach great importance to this
nomenclature; he says :-“Res non est magni momenti ; sequatur quilibet quod ipsi
optimum videtur. Magis enim a nostra fictione quam a natura dependet hæc divisio.”
It is important to note that this is the first time we find the Atlantic subdivided
into two parts, as practised in our day. According to Krümmel, Guillaume Delisle
adopted the following designations :--(1) The North Sea for the whole of the Atlantic
with the name generally written north of the equator, although in certain maps it
appears south of the equator; (2) the Indian Ocean ; (3) the South Sea, occasionally
called the South Sea or Pacific, sometimes the Great South Sea, but these names
always apply to the whole Pacific.
I SOBATHIC CURVES The first attempt to represent the bottom of the sea by isobathic curves is to
be found in a map by Philippe Buache in 1737. These isobathic curves are in-
tended to show that certain elevations of the sea-bottom correspond with the orography
of the neighbouring land. In his Essay on Physical Geography, published in 1752,
he develops these ideas, which may be summarised as follows :-
After the deluge the summits of the highest mountains formed a small number of
islands; the waters falling, other islands of less altitude soon appeared, but still separated
from the first. The waters continuing to recede, the higher ridges uniting these islands
began to show themselves, then the table-lands formed by masses of mountains became
visible, and finally the lower plains appeared. Had the water still continued to
recede other lands would have appeared in succession, and the bottom of the sea
would be a vast valley; it might then have been seen how the basins of the
sea are diversified, and how the continents are united by submarine chains now
hidden from view by the waters covering them. The directions of certain chains
of islands, of rocks, of shallows, which cross the sea, seem to unite the chains of
terrestrial mountains. The soundings of navigators, the observations on the currents
and their directions, are almost incontestible proofs that the bottom of the sea differs
from the land only in that it happens to be below the line at which the waters
ceased to recede.
1 Buache, Essai de géographie physique, où l'on propose des vues générales sur l'espèce de charpente du globe,
composée des chaînes de montagnes qui traversent les mers comme les terres ; avec quelques considérations particulières
sur les différents bassins de la mer et sur sa configuration intérieure (Hist. de l'Acad. des Sciences, 1752, pp. 399
et seq.).
