SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
603
STATION 168.
ANOMURA (Henderson, Zool. pt. 69).
Pagurodes inarmatus, n.g., n.sp. Five specimens in shells of Pleurotoma and
Nassa ; obtained also at Station 146.
Elasmonotus marginatus, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
PYCNOGONIDA (Hoek, Zool. pt. 10).
Nymphon longicoxa, n.sp. Twelve specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
compactum, n.sp. Two specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
GASTEROPODA (Watson, Zool. pt. 42).
Nassa dissimilis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Pleurotoma (Thesbia) membranacea, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
) xanthias, n.sp. Obtained at no other locality.
FISHES (Günther, Zool. pt. 57).
Macrurus murrayi, n.sp. Five specimens ; obtained at no other locality.
Bathysaurus ferox, n.g., n.sp. One specimen ; obtained at no other locality.
Chlorophthalmus gracilis, n.sp. One specimen ; obtained also at Stations 300 and
335, 1375 and 1425 fathoms.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Sponge, Palythoa (on shells inhabited by Pagurus), flexible and recurved spine of an
Urchin, and Sipunculids (?).
Excluding Protozoa, about 150 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
at this Station, belonging to about 44 species, of which 35 are new to science, including
representatives of 8 new genera; 23 of the new species and 3 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Suhm writes : “Among the Annelids were a true Clymene and a species
having apparently a bunch of tentacles around the mouth, or protruding from it, which
may be oral branchiæ, as described by Kupffer in Ammotrypane. There were specimens
of what appeared to be Sipunculids, and a large species of Nemerteans, which is of
interest as coming from such deep water. An Ostracode, with the prodigious length
of 10 millimetres was, as far as I could see without opening the shell, a typical
Cypridina [ = Crossophorus imperator]. Numerous larger and smaller specimens of
Serolis bromleyana were obtained, but none of them so large as those taken in the
south. Great numbers of a Munnopsis came up on the net as well as in the bag ;
some of the females had eggs and young in their pouches. Besides this true
Munnopsis, there was a species in which not only the pleon, but also the last three
