SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
365
122c.
Macrurus leptolepis, n.sp. One specimen (350 fathoms); obtained at no other Stations 122 TO
locality.
lævis, Lowe. One specimen (350 fathoms); obtained at no other locality
by the Challenger. Recorded from North Atlantic
and Mediterranean.
In addition to the foregoing, the following are recorded in the Station-book :-
Actinian, Polyps, Holothurians, Pycnogonid (Zetes sp. ?), several specimens of Chalaraspis
ungnifer [= Eucopia australis, Dana) Stylifer on the Rhizocrini, and Lithodomus in
the Coral.
Excluding Protozoa, over 300 specimens of invertebrates and fishes were obtained
on this date, belonging to about 194 species, of which 100 are new to science, including
representatives of 11 new genera; 70 of the new species and 6 new genera were not
obtained elsewhere.
Willemoes-Subm writes, with reference to the dredgings on this date : “Except
Salenia and Rhizocrinus, most of the animals taken in 350 to 400 fathoms were shallow-
water forms, for it is very doubtful whether the Pentacrinus is characteristic of the deep-
sea fauna. Among the Polyzoa were some very fine small forms. The Crustaceans were
all shallow-water forms, except perhaps Serolis, which is probably an inhabitant of deeper
water, at least in the tropics. The shells, including some fine specimens of Phorus, all
belonged to shallow water, with the exception of Dentalium, which may descend to great
depths, as does also apparently the fish-genus Macrurus, a specimen of which was taken
to-day along with such fishes as one might expect in the warmer regions of the Atlantic
or Mediterranean at moderate depths. One of the Rhizocrini from 400 fathoms had on
it Stylifer, with egg-capsules showing a rather thick pellucid envelope, in which the
living young larvæ, with their well-known nautiloid shell, were making rotations with
their cilia. Some oval bodies, from 350 fathoms, which were completely covered with
fragments of Pteropods, Foraminifera, &c., were found to be Holothurians. The dredging
in 30 fathoms brought up great masses of Sponges, Corals, and such animals as are
usually attached to these colonies.”
Moseley writes: “From 30 fathoms came up two huge specimens of Astræa
[=Orbicella] cavernosa showing that these rest on the bottom unattached to the rock.
Inside were some examples of Lithodomus dactylus, dead, closed in, and apparently killed,
by the rapid growth of the Coral. A number of sea-weeds came up with them, including
the Sargassum found at the surface, but here attached; what we have seen on the
surface is therefore evidently only detached from the bottom by currents or waves, as
was to be expected from its bearing fructification. A huge cup-like Sponge [Synops
(SUMMARY OF RESULTS CHALL. EXP.--1893.)
47
