SUMMARY OF RESULTS.
37
FALL OF THE
3
scientific method of discussion, which has above all things contributed to erect the edifice
of modern science.
If, however, on certain points, like those just referred to, the Arabs were on a level ARAB SPECULA-
TIONS ON RISE AND
with what was taught by the ancient Greeks, in regard to other matters concerning the
ocean their imagination carried them away from the truth. For example, the interpreta- Tides.
tions they gave of the cause of the rise and fall of the tide were widely removed from
the more correct ideas held by the ancients. In the chapter where Masóūdi recapitulates
the various explanations of tidal phenomena we find one hypothesis only more improbable
than another. 1
Schems' ed-Dîn-Mohammed of Damascus (El Dimishki) ? advanced a theory in vogue
in geological speculations ; according to him, when the sun is in the signs of the zodiac
in the south, as it is nearer to the earth, it exercises upon that hemisphere a much
greater attraction, and, for that reason, the liquid particles are collected in that region.
He thus vaguely foreshadowed the existence of the great ocean which is situated in that
part of the globe.
The influence of the Arabs on the scientific knowledge of the later Middle Ages was Arab
considerable. This was due to the additions which their learned men made to the
TRANSLATIONS
FROM THE GREEK
knowledge of nature, and, less directly, by the introduction, through their translations, TRANSLATED INTO
LATIN.
of the works of Greek authors. In fact, it was from the translations from Arabic into
Latin that the schoolmen became acquainted with ancient writings, chiefly those of
Aristotle and Ptolemy, which played so important a part in the Middle Ages.
The schoolmen gave an impetus to the study of ancient literature, and, although they Views of the
SCHOOLMEN.
contributed but little to positive science, it is none the less true that they initiated a
knowledge of Arabic and Greek authors, and thus powerfully helped forward the progress
of science at the time immediately preceding the great geographical discoveries of the
fifteenth century. The ideas of Hipparchus prevailed in the scholastic Middle Ages.
The earth was a sphere; the schoolmen did not attempt to measure it as the ancients and
Arabs had done, but accepted the calculations of Eratosthenes, and especially those of
Ptolemy. In the Iberian peninsula the views of Mela, which were opposed to those of
Hipparchus and Ptolemy, were very popular, and had much influence in leading up to
the voyages of the Portuguese during the fifteenth century.
Roger Bacon* adopted Aristotle's view that there was no great distance between Roger Bacon.
Spain and India opposite to the habitable world. He makes no definite statement
1 Mas'ūdi, op. cit., vol. i. ch. xi. One story is the following :-" The angel to whose care the seas are confided
immerges the heel of his foot into the sea at the extremity of China, and, as the sea is swelled, the flow takes place.
Then he raises his foot from the sea, and the water returns into its former place, and this is the ebb. They demonstrate
this by an example : if a vessel is only half full of water, and you put your hand into it, the water will fill the whole
vessel, and when you take out the hand the water will be as before. Some think that the angel puts only the great
toe of his right foot into the water, and that this is the cause of the tide” (p. 295).
Died in 1327.
3 Schems' ed-Din de Damas, Cosmographie, trad. par M. A. F. Mehren, p. 4, Copenhagen, 1874.
4 1214 to 1294 A.D.
